>> Woodruff: A MASSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM PLAN SURVIVED
A FIRST DAY RUNNING THE
CONGRESSIONAL GAUNTLET, BUT IT
FACES DETERMINED OPPOSITION IN
THE WEEKS TO COME.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
EXAMINE THE POLITICS AND THE
STICKING POINTS OVER BORDER
SECURITY AND MORE.
>> Woodruff: THEN, TWO TAKES ON
THE STORY OF THE OHIO WOMEN KEPT
CAPTIVE FOR A DECADE.
RAY SUAREZ GETS THE LATEST ON
THE ARRAIGNMENT OF THE SUSPECT
AND LOOKS AT THE ROAD AHEAD FOR
THE VICTIMS.
>> Brown: WE RETURN TO
YESTERDAY'S CONGRESSIONAL
HEARING ABOUT THE RAID ON THE
U.S. MISSION IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA
TO SORT THROUGH CHARGES AND
COUNTER-CHARGES ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED THERE.
>> Woodruff: FROM THE WEST
AFRICAN NATION OF SENEGAL, FRED
DE SAM LAZARO REPORTS ON EFFORTS
TO CURB A PAINFUL RITE OF
PASSAGE R MIFOLLIONS OF GIRLS
EVERY YEAR.
>> EACH YEAR, THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION SAYS UP TO THREE
MILLION GIRLS IN AFRICA ARE
SUBJECTED TO GENITAL MUTILATION,
AND UP TO 140 MILLION LIVE WITH
ITS CONSEQUENCES.
>> Brown: AND WE TALK WITH
MARCIA COYLE ABOUT HER NEW BOOK,
AN INSIDE ACCOUNT OF THE
LANDMARK DECISIONS FROM THE
ROBERTS COURT.
>> THIS IS A GROUP OF JUSTICES
THATING A CAPITOL HILL, THEY DO
LIKE EACH OTHER.
AND THEY WORK WELL.
IT'S VERY COLLEGIAL COURT.
IT'S NOT 94 BEANS IN THE BOTTLE.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM PLAN FACED
ITS FIRST MAJOR TESTS TODAY IN
THE U.S. SENATE, AND EMERGED
PRETTY MUCH INTACT.
FOR SUPPORTERS, IT WAS A HOPEFUL
BEGINNING TO THE DRIVE TO PASS
THE FIRST MAJOR IMMIGRATION
OVERHAUL BILL SINCE 1986.
THE FRONT LINE OF THE
IMMIGRATION FIGHT IS NOW THE
SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE,
WHERE MARK-UP BEGAN THIS MORNING
ON A BI-PARTISAN BILL.
ILLINOIS DEMOCRAT DICK DURBIN:
>> THIS IS OUR CHANCE, IN THIS
HEARING ROOM, TO WRITE AN
IMMIGRATION BILL FOR THE 21ST
CENTURY, FOR AMERICA AND ITS
FUTURE.
WE'VE COME TOGETHER, WE'VE
REACHED AN AGREEMENT, AND WE'VE
COMPROMISED AND I THINK WE'VE
COME UP WITH A GOOD WORK
PRODUCT.
>> Woodruff: DURBIN IS ONE OF
SO-CALLED "GANG OF EIGHT"
SENATORS WHO WROTE THE BILL.
IN ITS CURRENT FORM, IT RUNS 844
PAGES, AND WOULD PROVIDE A
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP FOR AN
ESTIMATED 11 MILLION
UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE NOW IN THE
COUNTRY.
THE PROCESS WOULD TAKE UP TO 13
YEARS AND APPLICANTS WOULD HAVE
TO PAY A FINE AND PASS A
CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK, AMONG
OTHER THINGS.
BUT THE COMMITTEE'S RANKING
REPUBLICAN, CHUCK GRASSLEY OF
IOWA, SAID THE BILL MERELY
REVISITS PAST MISTAKES.
>> IT FALLS SHORT OF WHAT I WANT
TO SEE IN A STRONG IMMIGRATION
REFORM BILL, SO YOU WILL HEAR ME
SAY MANY TIMES THAT WE SHOULDN'T
MAKE THE SAME MISTAKES THAT WE
MADE IN 1986.
YOU'LL HEAR ME SAY MANY TIMES
THAT WE OUGHT TO MOVE AHEAD WITH
A BILL THAT DOES IT RIGHT THIS
TIME.
>> Woodruff: MANY OF THE 300
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED SO FAR ARE
FOCUSED ON BORDER SECURITY.
THE BILL ALREADY CALLS FOR
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE EXISTING
BORDER FENCE AND OTHER SO-CALLED
TRIGGERS, BEFORE THE REVAMPED
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM TAKES EFFECT.
BUT GRASSLEY SAID THE TRIGGERS
ARE TOO WEAK.
HE WANTED THE GOVERNMENT TO
DEMONSTRATE EFFECTIVE CONTROL OF
THE BORDER FOR SIX MONTHS,
BEFORE CONSIDERING ANYONE FOR
LEGAL STATUS.
TEXAS REPUBLICAN JOHN CORNYN
JOINED IN.
>> THIS IS REALLY A CONFIDENCE-
BUILDING MEASURE, BORDER
SECURITY IF IT DOES NOT WORK AS
ADVERTISED, WE WOULD HAVE FAILED
IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY, WE WILL
NOT HAVE SOLVED THE PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: OPPONENTS OF THAT
AMENDMENT SAID IN REALITY, SUCH
STRICT ADDITIONS TO THE MEASURE
WOULD MEAN DENYING CITIZENSHIP
INDEFINITELY.
IN THE END, REPUBLICANS LINDSEY
GRAHAM OF SOUTH CAROLINA AND
JEFF FLAKE OF ARIZONA, BOTH
MEMBERS OF THE GANG OF EIGHT,
VOTED WITH MAJORITY DEMOCRATS TO
DEFEAT THE AMENDMENT, 12 TO SIX.
DEMOCRATS DID ACCEPT OTHER
CHANGES.
ONE CALLS FOR 90% OF WOULD-BE
BORDER JUMPERS TO BE STOPPED
ALONG THE ENTIRE MEXICAN BORDER,
NOT JUST IN HIGH RISK SECTORS.
BUT BILL SUPPORTERS SAID SOME OF
THE AMENDMENTS CLEARLY AMOUNT TO
POISON PILLS, INCLUDING A
PROPOSAL ALLOWING MEMBERS OF
SAME-SEX COUPLES TO SPONSOR
FOREIGN SPOUSES AND OTHERS
INCREASING VISA ELIGIBILITY FOR
HIGH-SKILLED WORKERS.
>> THERE ARE MANY WHO WOULD WANT
TO KILL THIS BILL.
I WOULD ASK MY COLLEAGUES, IF
YOU DON'T AGREE WITH EVERYTHING,
BE CONSTRUCTIVE, WE ARE OPEN TO
CHANGES.
>> Woodruff: THE MARK-UP COULD
GO ON FOR TWO WEEKS, SHIFTING
THE CAPITOL'S FOCUS AWAY FROM
GUN CONTROL AND FISCAL BATTLES,
AND PUTTING THE FIGHT OVER
IMMIGRATION REFORM FRONT AND
CENTER.
>> Brown: WE WALK THROUGH SOME
OF THE CONTENTIOUS DEBATE NOW
WITH TWO REPORTERS FOLLOWING THE
PROCESS TO THIS PARTICULAR
REFORM MOTION?
IT SEEMS -- I SHOULD SAY WHY IS
IT MORE IMPORTANT THAN THIS TIME
THAN USUAL?
>> WELL, IT'S MORE IMPORTANT
BECAUSE THE LAST TIME THE SENATE
TOOK UP IMMIGRATION PREFORM IT
WAS IN 2007 AND THE NEGOTIATING
GROUP LITERALLY CAME TO A
MASSIVE DEAL BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
AND THEN PUT IT ON THE SENATE
FLOOR WITHIN HOURS, MAYBE A DAY
OR SO ASKING COLLEAGUES TO VOTE
FOR THIS VERY COMPLEX BILL AND
SENATORS FELT CUT OUT OF THE
PROCESS AND AS IF THEY DIDN'T
HAVE ENOUGH TIME TO REVIEW THE
BILL BEFORE SUPPORTING IT.
SO REPUBLICANS WERE VERY CLEAR
WITH THE GROUP, THE GANG OF
EIGHT THIS TIME SAYING YOU NEED
TO PUT THIS THROUGH REGULAR
ORDER OR YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET
EVEN A CONSIDERATION FROM US
UNLESS THE PROCESS IS FAIR AND
OPEN.
SO THAT'S WHY IN THIS CASE JUST
BECAUSE IT'S HISTORY ON
IMMIGRATION, THE WAY THINGS WERE
DONE SEVERAL YEARS AGO, THAT'S
WHY IT'S SO IMPORTANT TO THE
PROCESS NOW THAT IT'S CONDUCTED
THROUGH REGULAR ORDER.
>> Brown: BRIAN BENNETT, AS
WE'VE SEEN, THE MAIN FOCUS IS
OVER SECURITY AT THE BORDER.
EXPLAIN THE KEY WAYS THAT ARE
BEING RAISED HERE ABOUT HOW THAT
SHOULD BE DEALT WITH.
>> WELL, SO THE GANG OF EIGHT
CAME TOGETHER AND PUT TOGETHER
WHAT THEY CONSIDER TO BE A
STRONG BORDER SECURITY PACKAGE
THAT HAS TO GO INTO PLACE WITHIN
TEN YEARS FOR ANY OF THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE LEGALIZED TO BE ABLE TO
BECOME CITIZENS AND THAT BORDER
SECURITY PACKAGE WOULD SPEND
ABOUT $4.5 BILLION, MAYBE UP TO
$6.5 BILLION ON BORDER SECURITY
AND INCREASE SURVEILLANCE AND DO
A NUMBER OF THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO REPUBLICANS ON THE COMMITTEE
WHO OPPOSED THOSE MEASURES TRIED
TO CHANGE IT.
SENATOR GRASSLEY, FOR EXAMPLE,
WANTED A CHANGE SO THAT THE
BORDER SECURITY WOULD HAVE TO BE
MET BEFORE ANYONE WAS LEGALIZED.
>> Brown: THEY TALKED ABOUT
EFFECTIVE CONTROL OF THAT
BORDER.
IS THAT WELL DEFINED?
>> IT IS AND IT ISN'T.
THE BORDER CONTROL CURRENTLY HAS
NO DEFINITION OF EFFECTIVE
CONTROL AND THERE WERE
PERCENTAGES TO DIFFERENT SECTORS
AND THE BORDER CONTROL SAYS IF
THE HIGH RISK SECTOR COMES OUT
OF THE BORDER IT HAS TO BE 5%
EFFECTIVE CONTROL.
SO THE GOAL IS TO RECEIVE 90%
>> Brown: WHICH MEANS NOW
EFFECTIVE CONTROL.
PATROLLING MORE OF THE BORDER,
>> Brown: WHICH MEANS NOW
MORE AREAS?
PATROLLING MORE OF THE BORDER,
>> YEAH, INSTEAD OF JUST THREE
MORE AREAS?
SECTORS AS WAS INITIALLY PUT
>> YEAH, INSTEAD OF JUST THREE
INTO THE DEAL, HE SUCCESSFULLY
SECTORS AS WAS INITIALLY PUT
HAD THE BILL CHANGED TO INCLUDE
INTO THE DEAL, HE SUCCESSFULLY
ALL SECTORS ALONG THE SOUTHWEST
HAD THE BILL CHANGED TO INCLUDE
BORDER.
ALL SECTORS ALONG THE SOUTHWEST
>> Brown: NOW, CARRIE, WHEN YOU
BORDER.
LOOK AT THIS GOING FORWARD HERE,
>> Brown: NOW, CARRIE, WHEN YOU
HOW SET IN PLACE ARE OUR
LOOK AT THIS GOING FORWARD HERE,
SENATORS.
HOW SET IN PLACE ARE OUR
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SPECIFIC
SENATORS.
ISSUES, BUT WHAT ABOUT SENATORS?
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SPECIFIC
WHERE'S THE FOCUS OF THE ACTION?
ISSUES, BUT WHAT ABOUT SENATORS?
>> WELL, ON THE COMMITTEE IF
WHERE'S THE FOCUS OF THE ACTION?
WE'RE JUST TO LOOK AT THIS
>> WELL, ON THE COMMITTEE IF
NARROW GROUP RIGHT NOW, THERE'S
WE'RE JUST TO LOOK AT THIS
SENATOR HATCH WHO IS VIEWED AS A
NARROW GROUP RIGHT NOW, THERE'S
PERSUADABLEENAT SOR, SOMEONE WHO
SENATOR HATCH WHO IS VIEWED AS A
COULD POSSIBLY COME ON BOARD AND
PERSUADABLEENAT SOR, SOMEONE WHO
SUPPORT THE BILL OUT OF
COULD POSSIBLY COME ON BOARD AND
COMMITTEE.
SUPPORT THE BILL OUT OF
THE DEMOCRATS ARE VERY FOCUSED
COMMITTEE.
ON HIM AND WANTING TO GET HIM AS
THE DEMOCRATS ARE VERY FOCUSED
WELL AS, OF COURSE, THE THE
ON HIM AND WANTING TO GET HIM AS
OTHER TWO REPUBLICANS IN THE
WELL AS, OF COURSE, THE THE
GANG OF EIGHT WHO IT IS ON THE
OTHER TWO REPUBLICANS IN THE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
GANG OF EIGHT WHO IT IS ON THE
SO WE'LL SEE A LOT OF ATTENTION
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
PAID TO SENATOR HATCH.
SO WE'LL SEE A LOT OF ATTENTION
HE VOTED WITH THE GANG OF EIGHT
PAID TO SENATOR HATCH.
WITH DEMOCRATS ON SOME AMENDMENT
HE VOTED WITH THE GANG OF EIGHT
WHICH IS SHOW MAYBE HE'S MORE
WITH DEMOCRATS ON SOME AMENDMENT
AMENABLE TO IT.
WHICH IS SHOW MAYBE HE'S MORE
AFTER THE COMMITTEE, OFF GROUP
AMENABLE TO IT.
OF ABOUT TWO DOZEN REPUBLICAN
AFTER THE COMMITTEE, OFF GROUP
SENATORS WHO BREAK INTO SORT OF
OF ABOUT TWO DOZEN REPUBLICAN
DIFFERENT TEARS IN TERMS OF
SENATORS WHO BREAK INTO SORT OF
THEIR LIKELIHOOD OF SUPPORTING
DIFFERENT TEARS IN TERMS OF
IT THAT THE GANG OF EIGHT IS
THEIR LIKELIHOOD OF SUPPORTING
FOCUSED ON TRYING TO GET.
IT THAT THE GANG OF EIGHT IS
THEY WANT 70 PLUS VOTES AND THAT
FOCUSED ON TRYING TO GET.
MEANS AS MANY AS TWO DOZEN
THEY WANT 70 PLUS VOTES AND THAT
SENATORS COULD COME ON BOARD IF
MEANS AS MANY AS TWO DOZEN
THEY LOSE A COUPLE DEMOCRATS.
SENATORS COULD COME ON BOARD IF
SO THERE'S A BIG PULL OF PEOPLE
THEY LOSE A COUPLE DEMOCRATS.
HERE, BUT A LOT OF THE SENATORS
SO THERE'S A BIG PULL OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE IN THE SENATE RIGHT NOW
HERE, BUT A LOT OF THE SENATORS
DID NOT VOTE OR WERE NOT HERE IN
WHO ARE IN THE SENATE RIGHT NOW
THE SENATE SIX YEARS AGO.
DID NOT VOTE OR WERE NOT HERE IN
SO THIS IS A NEW GROUP AND COULD
THE SENATE SIX YEARS AGO.
BE UNPREDICTABLE.
SO THIS IS A NEW GROUP AND COULD
>> Brown: SO BRIAN BENNETT,
BE UNPREDICTABLE.
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THESE OTHER
>> Brown: SO BRIAN BENNETT,
ISSUES AS WELL.
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THESE OTHER
THE ISSUE REALLY IS HOW MANY OF
ISSUES AS WELL.
THESE AMENDMENTS MIGHT PEEL AWAY
THE ISSUE REALLY IS HOW MANY OF
VOTES, RIGHT?
THESE AMENDMENTS MIGHT PEEL AWAY
WHAT OTHER KEY ISSUES SHOULD WE
VOTES, RIGHT?
BE LOOKING FOR?
WHAT OTHER KEY ISSUES SHOULD WE
>> THEY'RE LOOKING CLOSELY AT
BE LOOKING FOR?
HOW MANY PEOPLE QUALIFY FOR THIS
>> THEY'RE LOOKING CLOSELY AT
PROGRAM AND THEIR EFFORTS ON THE
HOW MANY PEOPLE QUALIFY FOR THIS
REPUBLICAN SIDE TO TRY TO REDUCE
PROGRAM AND THEIR EFFORTS ON THE
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD
REPUBLICAN SIDE TO TRY TO REDUCE
QUALIFY FOR THE LEGALIZATION
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD
PROGRAM.
QUALIFY FOR THE LEGALIZATION
AND REALLY THE MEMBERS OF THE
PROGRAM.
GANG OF EIGHT ARE GOING TO TRY
AND REALLY THE MEMBERS OF THE
TO BEAT THAT BACK AND MAKE SURE
GANG OF EIGHT ARE GOING TO TRY
IT -- ENOUGH PEOPLE ARE ABLE TO
TO BEAT THAT BACK AND MAKE SURE
QUALIFY FOR THE PROGRAM.
IT -- ENOUGH PEOPLE ARE ABLE TO
ANOTHER THING TO LOOK AT IS HOW
QUALIFY FOR THE PROGRAM.
IT DEFINES THE WORKPLACE
ANOTHER THING TO LOOK AT IS HOW
PROGRAMS.
IT DEFINES THE WORKPLACE
SO YOU HAVE A REQUIREMENT IN THE
PROGRAMS.
BILL THAT LIFTS THE NUMBER OF
SO YOU HAVE A REQUIREMENT IN THE
HIGH-SKILLED VISAS, BUT THERE'S
BILL THAT LIFTS THE NUMBER OF
SOME SENATORS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
HIGH-SKILLED VISAS, BUT THERE'S
HAVE EVEN MORE SO THAT'S GOING
SOME SENATORS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
TO BE A POINT OF CONTENTION AS
HAVE EVEN MORE SO THAT'S GOING
WELL.
TO BE A POINT OF CONTENTION AS
>> Brown: CARRIE, WE MENTIONED
WELL.
IN JUDY'S PIECE THE SAMEEX-S
>> Brown: CARRIE, WE MENTIONED
COUPLES MATTER THAT MAY COME UP.
IN JUDY'S PIECE THE SAMEEX-S
WHAT OTHER THINGS ARE YOU
COUPLES MATTER THAT MAY COME UP.
WATCHING?
WHAT OTHER THINGS ARE YOU
>> I'M CERTAINLY WATCHING THAT
WATCHING?
AMENDMENT.
>> I'M CERTAINLY WATCHING THAT
IF THE CHAIRMAN SENATOR LAHEY
AMENDMENT.
REFUSES TOOFF ER IT IT COULD
IF THE CHAIRMAN SENATOR LAHEY
COME UP AS EARLY AS TUESDAY.
REFUSES TOOFF ER IT IT COULD
SENATOR SCHUMER AND ANOTHER
COME UP AS EARLY AS TUESDAY.
LEADER OF THE GANG OF EIGHT TOLD
SENATOR SCHUMER AND ANOTHER
REPORTERS THAT THAT IS THE ONE
LEADER OF THE GANG OF EIGHT TOLD
AMENDMENT THAT KEEPS THEM UP AT
REPORTERS THAT THAT IS THE ONE
NIGHT SO CLEARLY HE IS WORRIED.
AMENDMENT THAT KEEPS THEM UP AT
>> A LOT OF DEMOCRATS ARE
NIGHT SO CLEARLY HE IS WORRIED.
WORRIED ABOUT THIS BECAUSE
>> A LOT OF DEMOCRATS ARE
THEY'RE BEING CAUGHT BETWEEN
WORRIED ABOUT THIS BECAUSE
BETWEEN TWO INTERESTS, ONE
THEY'RE BEING CAUGHT BETWEEN
MAKING THE BILL AS BIPARTISAN AS
BETWEEN TWO INTERESTS, ONE
POSSIBLE AND GETTING IT THROUGH
MAKING THE BILL AS BIPARTISAN AS
THE SENATE THEN GAY RIGHTS
POSSIBLE AND GETTING IT THROUGH
ADVOCATES WHO ARE INTENT ON
THE SENATE THEN GAY RIGHTS
TRYING TO GET THIS.
ADVOCATES WHO ARE INTENT ON
THEY BELIEVE IT'S AN EQUALITY
TRYING TO GET THIS.
ISSUE AND WANT IN THE THERE BUT
THEY BELIEVE IT'S AN EQUALITY
THEY'RE BEING FORCED TO CHOOSE
ISSUE AND WANT IN THE THERE BUT
BECAUSE REPUBLICANS ARE SAYING
THEY'RE BEING FORCED TO CHOOSE
IF THAT AMENDMENT IS ATTACHED
BECAUSE REPUBLICANS ARE SAYING
THEY WILL WALK AND THIS WILL
IF THAT AMENDMENT IS ATTACHED
CERTAINLY HOBBLE IMMIGRATION IF
THEY WILL WALK AND THIS WILL
NOT DERAIL IT.
CERTAINLY HOBBLE IMMIGRATION IF
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WE WILL
NOT DERAIL IT.
CONTINUE TO FOLLOW.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WE WILL
CARE PRIX BUDOFF BROWN AND BRIAN
CONTINUE TO FOLLOW.
BENNETT, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
CARE PRIX BUDOFF BROWN AND BRIAN
>> THK YOANU.
BENNETT, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
>> THK YOANU.
THE "NEWSHOUR": EXAMINING NEW
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
DETAILS IN THE CLEVELAND
THE "NEWSHOUR": EXAMINING NEW
KIDNAPPINGS AND HELPING THE
DETAILS IN THE CLEVELAND
VICTIMS COPE WITH TRAUMA.
KIDNAPPINGS AND HELPING THE
PLUS, FINDING THE FACTS IN THE
VICTIMS COPE WITH TRAUMA.
BENGHAZI STORY; ABANDONING AN
PLUS, FINDING THE FACTS IN THE
AGE-OLD TRADITION IN AFRICA AND
BENGHAZI STORY; ABANDONING AN
OFFERING A CLOSE-UP VIEW OF
AGE-OLD TRADITION IN AFRICA AND
THE ROBERT'S COURT.
OFFERING A CLOSE-UP VIEW OF
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
THE ROBERT'S COURT.
DAY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
DAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE BOSTON
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
POLICE COMMISSIONER TOLD
>> Sreenivasan: THE BOSTON
CONGRESS TODAY THAT THE F.B.I.
POLICE COMMISSIONER TOLD
NEVER PASSED ALONG RUSSIAN
CONGRESS TODAY THAT THE F.B.I.
WARNINGS ABOUT TAMERLAN
NEVER PASSED ALONG RUSSIAN
TSARNAEV, BEFORE THE BOSTON
WARNINGS ABOUT TAMERLAN
BOMBINGS.
TSARNAEV, BEFORE THE BOSTON
EDWARD DAVIS TESTIFIED AT A
BOMBINGS.
HOUSE HEARING THAT POLICE DID
EDWARD DAVIS TESTIFIED AT A
NOT KNOW THE BUREAU CHECKED OUT
HOUSE HEARING THAT POLICE DID
TSARNAEV WHEN HE VISITED RUSSIA
NOT KNOW THE BUREAU CHECKED OUT
LAST YEAR.
TSARNAEV WHEN HE VISITED RUSSIA
THE INVESTIGATION WAS LATER
LAST YEAR.
CLOSED.
THE INVESTIGATION WAS LATER
DAVIS SAID HE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
CLOSED.
KNOWN, BUT HE CONCEDED IT MIGHT
DAVIS SAID HE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
NOT HAVE CHANGED ANYTHING.
KNOWN, BUT HE CONCEDED IT MIGHT
>> IF WE KNEW EVERYTHING THAT WE
NOT HAVE CHANGED ANYTHING.
KNOW NOW-- ABSENT THE BLAST, OR
>> IF WE KNEW EVERYTHING THAT WE
BEFORE THE, WITHOUT THE BLAST
KNOW NOW-- ABSENT THE BLAST, OR
BEING INVOLVED IN IT-- BUT IF WE
BEFORE THE, WITHOUT THE BLAST
KNEW ALL OF THESE THINGS THAT
BEING INVOLVED IN IT-- BUT IF WE
HAVE COME OUT SINCE THEN WE WE'D
KNEW ALL OF THESE THINGS THAT
HAVE TAKEN A HARD LOOK AT THESE
HAVE COME OUT SINCE THEN WE WE'D
INDIVIDUALS.
HAVE TAKEN A HARD LOOK AT THESE
BUT AT THIS POINT IN TIME, I
INDIVIDUALS.
CAN'T SAY THAT WHEN WE KNEW
BUT AT THIS POINT IN TIME, I
THINGS THAT WE WOULD'VE DONE
CAN'T SAY THAT WHEN WE KNEW
ANYTHING DIFFERENTLY.
THINGS THAT WE WOULD'VE DONE
>> Sreenivasan: TAMERLAN
ANYTHING DIFFERENTLY.
TSARNAEV ULTIMATELY DIED IN A
>> Sreenivasan: TAMERLAN
SHOOT-OUT WITH POLICE.
TSARNAEV ULTIMATELY DIED IN A
TODAY, THERE WAS WORD THAT HE'S
SHOOT-OUT WITH POLICE.
BEEN BURIED AT AN UNDISCLOSED
TODAY, THERE WAS WORD THAT HE'S
LOCATION NEAR WORCESTER.
BEEN BURIED AT AN UNDISCLOSED
THAT FOLLOWED A WEEK-LONG SEARCH
LOCATION NEAR WORCESTER.
FOR A COMMUNITY NEAR BOSTON THAT
THAT FOLLOWED A WEEK-LONG SEARCH
WOULD ACCEPT THE REMAINS.
FOR A COMMUNITY NEAR BOSTON THAT
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS IN NEW YORK
WOULD ACCEPT THE REMAINS.
HAVE ANNOUNCED WHAT MAY BE THE
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS IN NEW YORK
BIGGEST A.T.M. HEIST EVER,
HAVE ANNOUNCED WHAT MAY BE THE
AFFECTING DOZENS OF COUNTRIES.
BIGGEST A.T.M. HEIST EVER,
CYBER-CRIMINALS DRAINED $45
AFFECTING DOZENS OF COUNTRIES.
MILLION FROM CASH MACHINES
CYBER-CRIMINALS DRAINED $45
AROUND THE WORLD, AFTER THEY
MILLION FROM CASH MACHINES
HACKED A DATABASE OF DEBIT
AROUND THE WORLD, AFTER THEY
CARDS.
HACKED A DATABASE OF DEBIT
PROSECUTORS DESCRIBED THE GANG
CARDS.
AS A VIRTUAL CRIMINAL FLASH MOB
PROSECUTORS DESCRIBED THE GANG
AND SAID SOME TOOK PICTURES OF
AS A VIRTUAL CRIMINAL FLASH MOB
THEMSELVES WAVING WADS OF CASH
AND SAID SOME TOOK PICTURES OF
IN MANHATTAN.
THEMSELVES WAVING WADS OF CASH
SEVEN PEOPLE ARE UNDER ARREST IN
IN MANHATTAN.
THE U.S.
SEVEN PEOPLE ARE UNDER ARREST IN
GUNMEN IN PAKISTAN ATTACKED A
THE U.S.
POLITICAL RALLY TODAY AND
GUNMEN IN PAKISTAN ATTACKED A
ABDUCTED THE SON OF A FORMER
POLITICAL RALLY TODAY AND
PRIME MINISTER-- THE LATEST
ABDUCTED THE SON OF A FORMER
VIOLENCE BEFORE SATURDAY'S
PRIME MINISTER-- THE LATEST
NATIONWIDE ELECTIONS.
VIOLENCE BEFORE SATURDAY'S
ALI HAIDER GILANI IS RUNNING FOR
NATIONWIDE ELECTIONS.
A PROVINCIAL ASSEMBLY SEAT FOR
ALI HAIDER GILANI IS RUNNING FOR
THE RULING PAKISTAN PEOPLE'S
A PROVINCIAL ASSEMBLY SEAT FOR
PARTY.
THE RULING PAKISTAN PEOPLE'S
HE'S THE SON OF EX-PRIME
PARTY.
MINISTER YOUSUF RAZA GILANI, WHO
HE'S THE SON OF EX-PRIME
WAS FORCED OUT OF OFFICE LAST
MINISTER YOUSUF RAZA GILANI, WHO
SUMMER.
WAS FORCED OUT OF OFFICE LAST
THE ATTACK AND ABDUCTION
SUMMER.
HAPPENED IN MULTAN, IN THE
THE ATTACK AND ABDUCTION
SOUTHERN PUNJAB PROVINCE.
HAPPENED IN MULTAN, IN THE
TWO OF GILANI'S BODYGUARDS WERE
SOUTHERN PUNJAB PROVINCE.
KILLED DURING THE ABDUCTION.
TWO OF GILANI'S BODYGUARDS WERE
IN NEIGHBORING BANGLADESH,
KILLED DURING THE ABDUCTION.
ANOTHER FATAL ACCIDENT HIT THE
IN NEIGHBORING BANGLADESH,
COUNTRY'S TROUBLED GARMENT
ANOTHER FATAL ACCIDENT HIT THE
INDUSTRY OVERNIGHT.
COUNTRY'S TROUBLED GARMENT
A FIRE BROKE OUT AT A FACTORY IN
INDUSTRY OVERNIGHT.
THE CAPITAL CITY DHAKA KILLING
A FIRE BROKE OUT AT A FACTORY IN
EIGHT PEOPLE, INCLUDING THE
THE CAPITAL CITY DHAKA KILLING
FACTORY DIRECTOR.
EIGHT PEOPLE, INCLUDING THE
THE FIRE ENGULFED THE LOWER
FACTORY DIRECTOR.
FLOORS OF THE 11-STORY FACTORY
THE FIRE ENGULFED THE LOWER
WHICH HAD CLOSED FOR THE DAY.
FLOORS OF THE 11-STORY FACTORY
PEOPLE STILL INSIDE SUFFOCATED
WHICH HAD CLOSED FOR THE DAY.
ON POISON GASES AS THEY RAN DOWN
PEOPLE STILL INSIDE SUFFOCATED
THE STAIRS.
ON POISON GASES AS THEY RAN DOWN
THE FIRE CAME TWO WEEKS AFTER A
THE STAIRS.
GARMENT BUILDING COLLAPSED IN
THE FIRE CAME TWO WEEKS AFTER A
DHAKA.
GARMENT BUILDING COLLAPSED IN
THE DEATH TOLL THERE GREW TO
DHAKA.
NEARLY 1,000 TODAY.
THE DEATH TOLL THERE GREW TO
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN
NEARLY 1,000 TODAY.
FIVE DECADES, AMERICANS ARE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN
SPENDING LESS ON PRESCRIPTION
FIVE DECADES, AMERICANS ARE
DRUGS.
SPENDING LESS ON PRESCRIPTION
THAT FINDING CAME TODAY FROM A
DRUGS.
PHARMACEUTICAL MARKET RESEARCH
THAT FINDING CAME TODAY FROM A
FIRM THE I.M.S. INSTITUTE FOR
PHARMACEUTICAL MARKET RESEARCH
HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS.
FIRM THE I.M.S. INSTITUTE FOR
THE INSTITUTE POINTED TO A SURGE
HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS.
OF NEW, CHEAPER GENERIC DRUGS.
THE INSTITUTE POINTED TO A SURGE
IT ALSO SAID CONSUMERS HAVE BEEN
OF NEW, CHEAPER GENERIC DRUGS.
PUTTING OFF DOCTOR VISITS AND
IT ALSO SAID CONSUMERS HAVE BEEN
DRUG REFILLS TO SAVE MONEY.
PUTTING OFF DOCTOR VISITS AND
FIRST-TIME CLAIMS FOR
DRUG REFILLS TO SAVE MONEY.
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS HAVE HIT A
FIRST-TIME CLAIMS FOR
NEW, FIVE-YEAR LOW.
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS HAVE HIT A
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT SAID TODAY
NEW, FIVE-YEAR LOW.
THAT LAYOFFS ARE NOW BACK TO
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT SAID TODAY
PRE-RECESSION LEVELS.
THAT LAYOFFS ARE NOW BACK TO
DESPITE THAT NEWS, WL STALREET
PRE-RECESSION LEVELS.
TOOK A BREAK FROM ITS ONGOING
DESPITE THAT NEWS, WL STALREET
RALLY.
TOOK A BREAK FROM ITS ONGOING
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
RALLY.
LOST 22 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
15,082.
LOST 22 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
THE NASDAQ FELL FOUR POINTS TO
15,082.
CLOSE AT 3,409.
THE NASDAQ FELL FOUR POINTS TO
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
CLOSE AT 3,409.
MAJOR STORIES.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
MAJOR STORIES.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN AGAIN
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
TO THE SHOCKING STORY IN
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN AGAIN
CLEVELAND OF THREE WOMEN HELD
TO THE SHOCKING STORY IN
CAPTIVE AND ABUSED FOR A DECADE.
CLEVELAND OF THREE WOMEN HELD
TODAY, THE MAN ACCUSED IN THE
CAPTIVE AND ABUSED FOR A DECADE.
CASE APPEARED BEFORE A JUDGE.
TODAY, THE MAN ACCUSED IN THE
RAY SUAREZ HAS THE LATEST.
CASE APPEARED BEFORE A JUDGE.
>> ALL RISE.
RAY SUAREZ HAS THE LATEST.
>> Suarez: ARIEL CASTRO KEPT HIS
>> ALL RISE.
HEAD BOWED AND BURIED THROUGHOUT
>> Suarez: ARIEL CASTRO KEPT HIS
HIS EARLY MORNING APPEARANCE IN
HEAD BOWED AND BURIED THROUGHOUT
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT.
HIS EARLY MORNING APPEARANCE IN
IT WAS HIS FIRST PUBLIC
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT.
APPEARANCE SINCE HE WAS ARRESTED
IT WAS HIS FIRST PUBLIC
MONDAY IN THE KIDNAPPING OF
APPEARANCE SINCE HE WAS ARRESTED
THREE WOMEN-- AMANDA BERRY, GINA
MONDAY IN THE KIDNAPPING OF
DEJESUS, AND MICHELLE KNIGHT.
THREE WOMEN-- AMANDA BERRY, GINA
ALL HAD BEEN HELD CAPTIVE IN
DEJESUS, AND MICHELLE KNIGHT.
CASTRO'S CLEVELAND HOME SINCE
ALL HAD BEEN HELD CAPTIVE IN
THEIR SEPARATE DISAPPEARANCES
CASTRO'S CLEVELAND HOME SINCE
BETWEEN 2002 AND 2004.
THEIR SEPARATE DISAPPEARANCES
PROSECUTORS SAID TODAY THE
BETWEEN 2002 AND 2004.
FORMER SCHOOL BUS DRIVER
PROSECUTORS SAID TODAY THE
REPEATEDLY BEAT AND SEXUALLY
FORMER SCHOOL BUS DRIVER
ASSAULTED THE WOMEN.
REPEATEDLY BEAT AND SEXUALLY
>> THIS CHILD KIDNAPPER OPERATED
ASSAULTED THE WOMEN.
A TORTURE CHAMBER AND PRIVATE
>> THIS CHILD KIDNAPPER OPERATED
PRISON IN THE HEART OF OUR CITY.
A TORTURE CHAMBER AND PRIVATE
THE HORRIFIC BRUTALITY AND
PRISON IN THE HEART OF OUR CITY.
TORTURE THAT THE VICTIMS ENDURED
THE HORRIFIC BRUTALITY AND
FOR A DECADE IS BEYOND
TORTURE THAT THE VICTIMS ENDURED
COMPREHENSION.
FOR A DECADE IS BEYOND
>> Suarez: "THE NEW YORK TIMES"
COMPREHENSION.
REPORTED TODAY THAT, ACCORDING
>> Suarez: "THE NEW YORK TIMES"
TO A POLICE DOCUMENT, THE WOMEN
REPORTED TODAY THAT, ACCORDING
WERE CHAINED IN THE BASEMENT FOR
TO A POLICE DOCUMENT, THE WOMEN
YEARS BEFORE FINALLY BEING MOVED
WERE CHAINED IN THE BASEMENT FOR
TO THE SECOND FLOOR.
YEARS BEFORE FINALLY BEING MOVED
IT ALSO SAID KNIGHT TOLD POLICE
TO THE SECOND FLOOR.
SHE'D BEEN IMPREGNATED BY CASTRO
IT ALSO SAID KNIGHT TOLD POLICE
ON MULTIPLE OCCASIONS AND THAT
SHE'D BEEN IMPREGNATED BY CASTRO
EACH TIME, HE STARVED AND
ON MULTIPLE OCCASIONS AND THAT
PUNCHED HER UNTIL SHE
EACH TIME, HE STARVED AND
MISCARRIED.
PUNCHED HER UNTIL SHE
CASTRO DID NOT ENTER A PLEA
MISCARRIED.
TODAY TO THE FOUR COUNTS OF
CASTRO DID NOT ENTER A PLEA
KIDNAPPING-- ONE FOR EACH OF THE
TODAY TO THE FOUR COUNTS OF
WOMEN PLUS BERRY'S SIX-YEAR-OLD
KIDNAPPING-- ONE FOR EACH OF THE
DAUGHTER, CONCEIVED IN CAPTIVITY
WOMEN PLUS BERRY'S SIX-YEAR-OLD
AND TO THREE COUNTS OF RAPE.
DAUGHTER, CONCEIVED IN CAPTIVITY
HIS BOND WAS SET AT $8 MILLION.
AND TO THREE COUNTS OF RAPE.
$3 MILLION MORE THAN THE
HIS BOND WAS SET AT $8 MILLION.
PROSECUTION REQUESTED.
$3 MILLION MORE THAN THE
AFTER THE PROCEEDINGS, HIS
PROSECUTION REQUESTED.
PUBLIC DEFENDER SAID HER CLIENT
AFTER THE PROCEEDINGS, HIS
WILL LIKELY BE KEPT ISOLATED.
PUBLIC DEFENDER SAID HER CLIENT
>> I WOULD IMAGINE HE WILL BE IN
WILL LIKELY BE KEPT ISOLATED.
A SINGLE CELL, AND I WOULD
>> I WOULD IMAGINE HE WILL BE IN
IMAGINE HE WILL BE UNDER A
A SINGLE CELL, AND I WOULD
SUICIDE WATCH OBSERVATION UNIT.
IMAGINE HE WILL BE UNDER A
>> Suarez: CASTRO'S BROTHERS,
SUICIDE WATCH OBSERVATION UNIT.
PEDRO AND ONIL, ALSO APPEARED IN
>> Suarez: CASTRO'S BROTHERS,
COURT ON UNRELATED MISDEMEANOR
PEDRO AND ONIL, ALSO APPEARED IN
CHARGES.
COURT ON UNRELATED MISDEMEANOR
THEY WERE LATER RELEASED FROM
CHARGES.
CUSTODY.
THEY WERE LATER RELEASED FROM
AUTHORITIES SAY THEY KNEW
CUSTODY.
NOTHING ABOUT THE WOMEN BEING
AUTHORITIES SAY THEY KNEW
HELD ABDUCTED AND HELD CAPTIVE.
NOTHING ABOUT THE WOMEN BEING
THE COUNTY PROSECUTOR ALSO SAID
HELD ABDUCTED AND HELD CAPTIVE.
THIS AFTERNOON HE MAY SEEK THE
THE COUNTY PROSECUTOR ALSO SAID
DEATH PENALTY AGAINST CASTRO FOR
THIS AFTERNOON HE MAY SEEK THE
HIS ALLEGED ROLE IN THE MULTIPLE
DEATH PENALTY AGAINST CASTRO FOR
MISCARRIAGES.
HIS ALLEGED ROLE IN THE MULTIPLE
MATTHEW DOLAN IS COVERING THIS
MISCARRIAGES.
STORY FOR THE "WALL STREET
MATTHEW DOLAN IS COVERING THIS
JOURNAL" AND HE JOINS US FROM
STORY FOR THE "WALL STREET
CLEVELAND.
JOURNAL" AND HE JOINS US FROM
MATTHEW, WELCOME.
CLEVELAND.
DOES OHIO LAW SPECIFY IN ALL
MATTHEW, WELCOME.
CASES THAT IF YOU ARE ACTIVELY
DOES OHIO LAW SPECIFY IN ALL
ENDING A PREGNANCY IN THIS WAY
CASES THAT IF YOU ARE ACTIVELY
YOU MIGHT BE OPEN TO CHARGES OF
ENDING A PREGNANCY IN THIS WAY
MURDER?
YOU MIGHT BE OPEN TO CHARGES OF
OR IS THAT A MATTER OF
MURDER?
PROSECUTORIAL INTERPRETATION?
OR IS THAT A MATTER OF
>> I THINK IT'S UNCLEAR AT THIS
PROSECUTORIAL INTERPRETATION?
POINT.
>> I THINK IT'S UNCLEAR AT THIS
THE PROSECUTOR READ US A
POINT.
DETAILED STATEMENT TODAY, BUT HE
THE PROSECUTOR READ US A
DECLINED TO TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
DETAILED STATEMENT TODAY, BUT HE
FROM REPORTERS.
DECLINED TO TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THIS IS CERTAINLY A SENSITIVE
FROM REPORTERS.
ISSUE.
THIS IS CERTAINLY A SENSITIVE
THE ENTIRE ISSUE OF THE
ISSUE.
MISCARRIAGES REALLY HAD NOT BEEN
THE ENTIRE ISSUE OF THE
RELEASED BY POLICE BEFORE.
MISCARRIAGES REALLY HAD NOT BEEN
WE OBTAINED A CONFIDENTIAL
RELEASED BY POLICE BEFORE.
POLICE REPORT YOU CITED EARLIER
WE OBTAINED A CONFIDENTIAL
LAST NIGHT AND PUBLISHED SOME OF
POLICE REPORT YOU CITED EARLIER
THOSE DETAILS THAT TALKED ABOUT
LAST NIGHT AND PUBLISHED SOME OF
THE MISCARRIAGES THAT ALLEGEDLY
THOSE DETAILS THAT TALKED ABOUT
CAME AT THE HANDS OF MR. CASTRO.
THE MISCARRIAGES THAT ALLEGEDLY
>> Suarez: ALSO IN THIS
CAME AT THE HANDS OF MR. CASTRO.
AFTERNOON'S NEWS CONFERENCE, THE
>> Suarez: ALSO IN THIS
PROSECUTOR INDICATED THAT THEY
AFTERNOON'S NEWS CONFERENCE, THE
WERE GOING TO BACK OFF THE
PROSECUTOR INDICATED THAT THEY
FAMILY FOR A WHILE.
WERE GOING TO BACK OFF THE
DOES THAT INDICATE TO YOU THAT
FAMILY FOR A WHILE.
THEY'VE GOT WHAT THEY NEED FOR
DOES THAT INDICATE TO YOU THAT
THE TIME BEING AND SIMPLY DON'T
THEY'VE GOT WHAT THEY NEED FOR
WANT TO BRING THE PRESSURE TO
THE TIME BEING AND SIMPLY DON'T
BEAR OF THAT KIND OF DEPOSING
WANT TO BRING THE PRESSURE TO
THAT IT MIGHT CAUSE?
BEAR OF THAT KIND OF DEPOSING
>> IT'S A VERY DIFFICULT AND
THAT IT MIGHT CAUSE?
DELICATE SITUATION BOTH FOR
>> IT'S A VERY DIFFICULT AND
AUTHORITIES AND THE FAMILIES.
DELICATE SITUATION BOTH FOR
THEY WERE INITIALLY DEBRIEFED
AUTHORITIES AND THE FAMILIES.
AFTER THEY ESCAPED FROM THE HOME
THEY WERE INITIALLY DEBRIEFED
AND IT LOOKS AS THOUGH
AFTER THEY ESCAPED FROM THE HOME
PROSECUTORS AND POLICE WERE ABLE
AND IT LOOKS AS THOUGH
TO ESTABLISH SOME INITIAL
PROSECUTORS AND POLICE WERE ABLE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE CONDITIONS
TO ESTABLISH SOME INITIAL
OF THEIR CAPTIVITY AND EVEN
INFORMATION ABOUT THE CONDITIONS
ABOUT HOW THEY WERE FIRST
OF THEIR CAPTIVITY AND EVEN
ENSNARED, ALLEGEDLY, BY
ABOUT HOW THEY WERE FIRST
MR. CASTRO.
ENSNARED, ALLEGEDLY, BY
BUT THEY ARE CONVINCED THAT
MR. CASTRO.
BECAUSE OF THE LENGTH OF THE
BUT THEY ARE CONVINCED THAT
CAPTIVITY THAT THEY REALLY NEED
BECAUSE OF THE LENGTH OF THE
TIME TO HEAL ON THEIR OWN AND SO
CAPTIVITY THAT THEY REALLY NEED
BOTH PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND LAW
TIME TO HEAL ON THEIR OWN AND SO
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES HAVE
BOTH PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND LAW
ASKED THE MEDIA REALLY NOT TO
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES HAVE
MAKE REPEATED ATTEMPTS TO
ASKED THE MEDIA REALLY NOT TO
INTERVIEW THESE WOMEN WHILE THEY
MAKE REPEATED ATTEMPTS TO
SPEND SOME TIME WITH THEIR
INTERVIEW THESE WOMEN WHILE THEY
FAMILIES.
SPEND SOME TIME WITH THEIR
SOME OF THEM HAVE BEEN AWAY FROM
FAMILIES.
THEIR FAMILIES FOR A DECADE.
SOME OF THEM HAVE BEEN AWAY FROM
SO JUST GETTING TO KNOW FAMILY
THEIR FAMILIES FOR A DECADE.
MEMBERS AGAIN AND FEELING SAFE
SO JUST GETTING TO KNOW FAMILY
IS CRITICALLY IMPORTANT.
MEMBERS AGAIN AND FEELING SAFE
>> Suarez: DETAILS HAVE COME TO
IS CRITICALLY IMPORTANT.
LIGHT OVER THE PAST DAY THAT ARE
>> Suarez: DETAILS HAVE COME TO
SAID TO COME FROM THE CONTENTS
LIGHT OVER THE PAST DAY THAT ARE
OF A LETTER WRITTEN BY ARIEL
SAID TO COME FROM THE CONTENTS
CASTRO.
OF A LETTER WRITTEN BY ARIEL
IN YOUR REPORTING, HAVE YOU BEEN
CASTRO.
ABLE TO SUBSTANTIATE THE
IN YOUR REPORTING, HAVE YOU BEEN
EXISTENCE OF THIS LETTER OR ITS
ABLE TO SUBSTANTIATE THE
CONTENTS?
EXISTENCE OF THIS LETTER OR ITS
>> NO, WE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO
CONTENTS?
SUBSTANTIATE THOSE REPORTS.
>> NO, WE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO
SO FAR WE KNOW THAT SOME 200
SUBSTANTIATE THOSE REPORTS.
ITEMS WERE TAKEN FROM THE HOME
SO FAR WE KNOW THAT SOME 200
DURING A SEARCH BY BOTH THE
ITEMS WERE TAKEN FROM THE HOME
F.B.I. AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
DURING A SEARCH BY BOTH THE
BUT SO FAR POLICE HAVE NOT
F.B.I. AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
DETAILED WHAT WAS TAKEN FROM THE
BUT SO FAR POLICE HAVE NOT
HOME AND SO WE REALLY DON'T KNOW
DETAILED WHAT WAS TAKEN FROM THE
MUCH ABOUT THIS ALLEGED LETTER
HOME AND SO WE REALLY DON'T KNOW
OTHER THAN WHAT SOME NEWS
MUCH ABOUT THIS ALLEGED LETTER
REPORTS HAVE SAID.
OTHER THAN WHAT SOME NEWS
WE'LL CERTAINLY SEE MORE AS THE
REPORTS HAVE SAID.
SEARCH WARRANTS AND THE
WE'LL CERTAINLY SEE MORE AS THE
INVENTORY OF WHAT INVESTIGATORS
SEARCH WARRANTS AND THE
FOUND ARE RETURNED TO THE COURTS
INVENTORY OF WHAT INVESTIGATORS
>> Suarez: POLICE HAVE MADE UP
FOUND ARE RETURNED TO THE COURTS
-- SAY THEY'VE MADE UP MUCH OF
>> Suarez: POLICE HAVE MADE UP
THE TIMELINE AND THE STORY IN
-- SAY THEY'VE MADE UP MUCH OF
THEIR CHARGING DOCUMENTS FROM
THE TIMELINE AND THE STORY IN
STATEMENTS FROM THE WOMEN AND
THEIR CHARGING DOCUMENTS FROM
ALONGSIDE THEM ARE STORIES FROM
STATEMENTS FROM THE WOMEN AND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
ALONGSIDE THEM ARE STORIES FROM
HAVE WE BEEN ABLE TO
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SUBSTANTIATE WHETHER AND WHEN
HAVE WE BEEN ABLE TO
THOSE THREE WOMEN WERE ABLE TO
SUBSTANTIATE WHETHER AND WHEN
MOVE ABOUT, WERE ABLE TO LEAVE
THOSE THREE WOMEN WERE ABLE TO
THE BUILDING AT ALL?
MOVE ABOUT, WERE ABLE TO LEAVE
>> WELL, WE DO KNOW THIS, AT
THE BUILDING AT ALL?
LEAST ACCORDING TO THE WOMEN'S
>> WELL, WE DO KNOW THIS, AT
ACCOUNTS TO AUTHORITIES THEY
LEAST ACCORDING TO THE WOMEN'S
WERE ONLY ALLOWED OUT OF THE
ACCOUNTS TO AUTHORITIES THEY
HOME TWICE AND THAT WAS ONLY TO
WERE ONLY ALLOWED OUT OF THE
GO TO THE GARAGE IN THE REAR OF
HOME TWICE AND THAT WAS ONLY TO
THE PROPERTY.
GO TO THE GARAGE IN THE REAR OF
ONLY TWO OF THEM WERE ALLOWED TO
THE PROPERTY.
GO AT A TIME.
ONLY TWO OF THEM WERE ALLOWED TO
IT'S UNCLEAR WHO EXACTLY WENT TO
GO AT A TIME.
THE GARAGE AND WHEN THEY DID GO
IT'S UNCLEAR WHO EXACTLY WENT TO
TO THE GARAGE THEY HAD TO WEAR
THE GARAGE AND WHEN THEY DID GO
DISGUISES THAT INCLUDED WIGS.
TO THE GARAGE THEY HAD TO WEAR
SO THERE ARE OTHER REPORTS OUT
DISGUISES THAT INCLUDED WIGS.
THERE FROM NEIGHBORHOOD
SO THERE ARE OTHER REPORTS OUT
RESIDENTS AND OTHER WITNESSES
THERE FROM NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT SAY THAT THEY MAY HAVE SEEN
RESIDENTS AND OTHER WITNESSES
VERY SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY,
THAT SAY THAT THEY MAY HAVE SEEN
INCLUDING WOMEN IN THE YARD AT
VERY SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY,
VARIOUS POINTS OVER RECENT
INCLUDING WOMEN IN THE YARD AT
YEARS.
VARIOUS POINTS OVER RECENT
BUT POLICE INSIST THAT THEY ONLY
YEARS.
HAD TWO CALLS TO THE HOUSE OVER
BUT POLICE INSIST THAT THEY ONLY
THE LAST DECADE AND NEITHER OF
HAD TWO CALLS TO THE HOUSE OVER
THOSE CALLS WERE RELATED TO
THE LAST DECADE AND NEITHER OF
CALLS SUPPOSEDLY FROM WITNESSES
THOSE CALLS WERE RELATED TO
DESCRIBING WOMEN IN DISTRESS.
CALLS SUPPOSEDLY FROM WITNESSES
>> Suarez: MATTHEW, BEFORE WE
DESCRIBING WOMEN IN DISTRESS.
LET YOU GO, DO WE KNOW WHEN
>> Suarez: MATTHEW, BEFORE WE
ARIEL CASTRO WILL BE BACK IN
LET YOU GO, DO WE KNOW WHEN
COURT?
ARIEL CASTRO WILL BE BACK IN
>> WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT IT'S
COURT?
TYPICAL THAT WITHIN ABOUT 30
>> WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT IT'S
DAYS OR SO MR. CASTRO TYPICALLY
TYPICAL THAT WITHIN ABOUT 30
WOULD BE RETURNED TO COURT FOR
DAYS OR SO MR. CASTRO TYPICALLY
AN OFFICIAL ARRAIGNMENT.
WOULD BE RETURNED TO COURT FOR
AT THAT PERIOD HE MAY OFFER TO
AN OFFICIAL ARRAIGNMENT.
ENTER A PLEA, WHICH HE DID NOT
AT THAT PERIOD HE MAY OFFER TO
DO TODAY.
ENTER A PLEA, WHICH HE DID NOT
BUT WHAT HAPPENS ALSO IS THAT
DO TODAY.
THAT THE CITY PROSECUTOR'S
BUT WHAT HAPPENS ALSO IS THAT
OFFICE THAT HANDLED THE CASE
THAT THE CITY PROSECUTOR'S
INITIALLY WILL EVENTUALLY TURN
OFFICE THAT HANDLED THE CASE
THAT OVER TO THE COUNTY
INITIALLY WILL EVENTUALLY TURN
PROSECUTOR WHO SPOKE TODAY AND
THAT OVER TO THE COUNTY
HE WILL TAKE THE CASE TO THE
PROSECUTOR WHO SPOKE TODAY AND
GARAGE.
HE WILL TAKE THE CASE TO THE
SO WE EXPECT THAT WITHIN SOME
GARAGE.
PERIOD OF TIME, EITHER BEFORE
SO WE EXPECT THAT WITHIN SOME
THE ACTUAL ARRAIGNMENT OR
PERIOD OF TIME, EITHER BEFORE
SHORTLY AFTER THAT THE GRAND
THE ACTUAL ARRAIGNMENT OR
JURY WILL ACT IN SOME WAY AND
SHORTLY AFTER THAT THE GRAND
DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT TO ACT ON
JURY WILL ACT IN SOME WAY AND
THESE MORE SEVERE CHARGES THAT
DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT TO ACT ON
THE PROSECUTOR SAID THAT HE'S
THESE MORE SEVERE CHARGES THAT
EXPLORING TODAY.
THE PROSECUTOR SAID THAT HE'S
>> Suarez: MATTHEW DOLAN OF THE
EXPLORING TODAY.
"WALL STREET JOURNAL," THANKS
>> Suarez: MATTHEW DOLAN OF THE
FOR JOINING US.
"WALL STREET JOURNAL," THANKS
>> SURE, MY PLEASURE.
FOR JOINING US.
>> Suarez: NOW MORE ABOUT THE
>> SURE, MY PLEASURE.
VICTIMS AND WHAT WE MAY BE ABLE
>> Suarez: NOW MORE ABOUT THE
TO LEARN FROM PAST CASES AND
VICTIMS AND WHAT WE MAY BE ABLE
ABUSES.
TO LEARN FROM PAST CASES AND
DR. FRANK OCHBERG IS A CLINICAL
ABUSES.
PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY AT
DR. FRANK OCHBERG IS A CLINICAL
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY.
PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY AT
HE'S A FORMER ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY.
OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
HE'S A FORMER ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
MENTAL HEALTH AND AN EXPERT WHO
OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
HAS WRITTEN EXTENSIVELY ON THE
MENTAL HEALTH AND AN EXPERT WHO
EFFECTS OF TRAUMA, INCLUDING
HAS WRITTEN EXTENSIVELY ON THE
POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS SYNDROME.
EFFECTS OF TRAUMA, INCLUDING
AND, DOCTOR, AS WE'VE HEARD,
POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS SYNDROME.
THESE WOMEN WERE NOT ONLY KEPT
AND, DOCTOR, AS WE'VE HEARD,
CONFINED BUT PHYSICALLY ABUSED,
THESE WOMEN WERE NOT ONLY KEPT
SEXUALLY ABUSED OVER THE YEARS.
CONFINED BUT PHYSICALLY ABUSED,
WHAT DO THEY NEED RIGHT NOW IN
SEXUALLY ABUSED OVER THE YEARS.
THE SHORT TERM.
WHAT DO THEY NEED RIGHT NOW IN
HOW DO YOU TREAT A PATIENT LIKE
THE SHORT TERM.
THIS?
HOW DO YOU TREAT A PATIENT LIKE
>> ONE THING ALSO IS THEY'VE
THIS?
BEEN DENIED A MOTHER ALL THAT
>> ONE THING ALSO IS THEY'VE
TIME AND I DON'T KNOW WHO THEIR
BEEN DENIED A MOTHER ALL THAT
THERAPISTS ARE GOING TO BE BUT
TIME AND I DON'T KNOW WHO THEIR
THE THERAPIST WOULD NOT DIG
THERAPISTS ARE GOING TO BE BUT
RIGHT INTO THE WORST THAT WE'VE
THE THERAPIST WOULD NOT DIG
HEARD ABOUT.
RIGHT INTO THE WORST THAT WE'VE
HE WOULD ESTABLISH SOME COMFORT,
HEARD ABOUT.
A CHANCE TO TAKE THESE YOUNG
HE WOULD ESTABLISH SOME COMFORT,
WOMEN AS THEY ARE AND I THINK
A CHANCE TO TAKE THESE YOUNG
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR THEM TO
WOMEN AS THEY ARE AND I THINK
HAVE A MATERNAL PRESENCE.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR THEM TO
>> Suarez: AS HORRIFIC AS
HAVE A MATERNAL PRESENCE.
ELIZABETH'S SMART STORY WAS, SHE
>> Suarez: AS HORRIFIC AS
WAS ONLY GONE NINE MONTHS.
ELIZABETH'S SMART STORY WAS, SHE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT UP TO TEN
WAS ONLY GONE NINE MONTHS.
YEARS IN THESE CASES AND IN THE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT UP TO TEN
CASE OF TWO OF THE WOMEN,
YEARS IN THESE CASES AND IN THE
MISSING MAJOR LIFE TRANSITIONS:
CASE OF TWO OF THE WOMEN,
FINISHING HIGH SCHOOL, MOVING
MISSING MAJOR LIFE TRANSITIONS:
FROM TEENAGERHOOD TO ADULTHOOD.
FINISHING HIGH SCHOOL, MOVING
WHEN A CAPTIVITY HAS BEEN THIS
FROM TEENAGERHOOD TO ADULTHOOD.
AS LONG AS, ARE THERE PARTICULAR
WHEN A CAPTIVITY HAS BEEN THIS
DIFFERENCES THAT ARISE WHEN
AS LONG AS, ARE THERE PARTICULAR
TREATING A CASE LIKE THAT?
DIFFERENCES THAT ARISE WHEN
IT'S ALMOST HALF THEIR LIVES.
TREATING A CASE LIKE THAT?
THE.
IT'S ALMOST HALF THEIR LIVES.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, RAY.
THE.
AND IT'S THROUGH IMPORTANT
>> THAT'S RIGHT, RAY.
PERIODS, IT'S TIMES WHEN YOU
AND IT'S THROUGH IMPORTANT
DEVELOP A CHANCE TO KNOW WHO YOU
PERIODS, IT'S TIMES WHEN YOU
ARE AS A STUDENT, TO CREATE
DEVELOP A CHANCE TO KNOW WHO YOU
FRIENDS, TO BE IN A NORMAL
ARE AS A STUDENT, TO CREATE
GIVE-AND-TAKE FAMILY.
FRIENDS, TO BE IN A NORMAL
SO IT'S IMPORTANT TO RESTORE
GIVE-AND-TAKE FAMILY.
THAT KIND OF A MILIEU AND TRUST.
SO IT'S IMPORTANT TO RESTORE
SO FAR SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
THAT KIND OF A MILIEU AND TRUST.
WE'VE SEEN ARE ENCOURAGING:
SO FAR SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
LAUGHTER, JOY AT BEING REUNITED,
WE'VE SEEN ARE ENCOURAGING:
A SENSE OF WHAT FREEDOM MEANS.
LAUGHTER, JOY AT BEING REUNITED,
BUT WE'RE ALSO HEARING THAT WE
A SENSE OF WHAT FREEDOM MEANS.
DON'T WANT TO OVERINTERVIEW THEM
BUT WE'RE ALSO HEARING THAT WE
WE DON'T WANT THEM TO DEFINE
DON'T WANT TO OVERINTERVIEW THEM
THEIR LIVES AS THOSE WOMEN WHO
WE DON'T WANT THEM TO DEFINE
WERE CAPTURED THROUGH THAT
THEIR LIVES AS THOSE WOMEN WHO
PERIOD OF TIME.
WERE CAPTURED THROUGH THAT
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN
PERIOD OF TIME.
PERSONALITIES, THEIR OWN
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN
POSITIVE ATTRIBUTES, THEY HAVE
PERSONALITIES, THEIR OWN
TO INTERACT AND I THINK WETY T
POSITIVE ATTRIBUTES, THEY HAVE
PUBLIC HAVE TO HAVE A SENSE OF
TO INTERACT AND I THINK WETY T
LEAVING THEM ALONE BUT ALSO
PUBLIC HAVE TO HAVE A SENSE OF
ROOTING FOR THEM AND HOPING FOR
LEAVING THEM ALONE BUT ALSO
THE BEST FOR THEM.
ROOTING FOR THEM AND HOPING FOR
REMEMBER, THERE ARE A LOT OF
THE BEST FOR THEM.
KIDS WHO HAVE BEEN RAISED IN
REMEMBER, THERE ARE A LOT OF
WAR-TORN COUNTRIES, WHO'VE GONE
KIDS WHO HAVE BEEN RAISED IN
THROUGH TREMENDOUS CHANGES.
WAR-TORN COUNTRIES, WHO'VE GONE
THEY'VE SEEN PARENTS KILLED.
THROUGH TREMENDOUS CHANGES.
ME AND MY COLLEAGUES LIVE IN A
THEY'VE SEEN PARENTS KILLED.
WORLD OF EXTREME TRAUMA.
ME AND MY COLLEAGUES LIVE IN A
PEOPLE DO RECOVER FROM THESE
WORLD OF EXTREME TRAUMA.
KIND OF EVENTS.
PEOPLE DO RECOVER FROM THESE
>> Suarez: I'M GLAD YOU
KIND OF EVENTS.
MENTIONED CHILDREN, DOCTOR,
>> Suarez: I'M GLAD YOU
BECAUSE IN THIS CASE WE HAVE A
MENTIONED CHILDREN, DOCTOR,
CHILD WHO WAS BORN INTO THIS
BECAUSE IN THIS CASE WE HAVE A
CAPTIVITY AND ALMOST IMPRISONED
CHILD WHO WAS BORN INTO THIS
IN THE HOUSE IN WHICH SHE CAME
CAPTIVITY AND ALMOST IMPRISONED
INTO THE WORLD.
IN THE HOUSE IN WHICH SHE CAME
DOES THAT OFFER SPECIAL
INTO THE WORLD.
CHALLENGES?
DOES THAT OFFER SPECIAL
>> IT CERTAINLY DOES.
CHALLENGES?
AND I WONDER WHAT KIND OF
>> IT CERTAINLY DOES.
MOTHERING THAT CHILD RECEIVED
AND I WONDER WHAT KIND OF
FROM HER TEENAGED MOTHER.
MOTHERING THAT CHILD RECEIVED
NOW, SHE COULD HAVE GOTTEN THE
FROM HER TEENAGED MOTHER.
MILK OF HUMANKINDNESS--
NOW, SHE COULD HAVE GOTTEN THE
LITERALLY AND FIGURATIVELY.
MILK OF HUMANKINDNESS--
THERE COULD HAVE BEEN A BOND.
LITERALLY AND FIGURATIVELY.
AND THAT BOND MIGHT BE A
THERE COULD HAVE BEEN A BOND.
POSITIVE THING FOR ALL OF THEM.
AND THAT BOND MIGHT BE A
WE DON'T KNOW.
POSITIVE THING FOR ALL OF THEM.
WE HAVE TO HOPE FOR THE BEST.
WE DON'T KNOW.
RAY, I WANT TO MAKE A POINT ALSO
WE HAVE TO HOPE FOR THE BEST.
AND IF I CAN MAKE IT NOW IT'S
RAY, I WANT TO MAKE A POINT ALSO
THAT WE PAY SO MUCH ATTENTION TO
AND IF I CAN MAKE IT NOW IT'S
A CASE LIKE THIS BECAUSE IT'S
THAT WE PAY SO MUCH ATTENTION TO
UNUSUAL.
A CASE LIKE THIS BECAUSE IT'S
IT INVOLVES CHILDREN BEING TAKEN
UNUSUAL.
OUT OF THEIR HOMES.
IT INVOLVES CHILDREN BEING TAKEN
RAY AND THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
OUT OF THEIR HOMES.
LISTENING, THERE ARE MILLIONS OF
RAY AND THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
CHILDREN WHO ARE LIVING IN THEIR
LISTENING, THERE ARE MILLIONS OF
HOMES AND THEY ARE SUBJECTED TO
CHILDREN WHO ARE LIVING IN THEIR
REPEATED RAPE IN THEIR HOME.
HOMES AND THEY ARE SUBJECTED TO
THE WE HAVE AN INCEST STORY THAT
REPEATED RAPE IN THEIR HOME.
IS STAGGERING AND WE DON'T LIKE
THE WE HAVE AN INCEST STORY THAT
TO LOOK AT IT.
IS STAGGERING AND WE DON'T LIKE
BUT WHEN I SAW THIS CASE, I
TO LOOK AT IT.
THOUGHT "OH, MY GOODNESS.
BUT WHEN I SAW THIS CASE, I
A LOT OF MY PATIENTS ARE GOING
THOUGHT "OH, MY GOODNESS.
TO BE WATCHING AND THEY'RE GOING
A LOT OF MY PATIENTS ARE GOING
TO BE SAYING "THAT'S ME.
TO BE WATCHING AND THEY'RE GOING
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED TO ME.
TO BE SAYING "THAT'S ME.
WHAT HAPPENED IN MY OWN HOUSE."
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED TO ME.
>> Suarez: AND VERY BRIEFLY,
WHAT HAPPENED IN MY OWN HOUSE."
DOCTOR, DO THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS
>> Suarez: AND VERY BRIEFLY,
ALSO NEED SOME ADVICE?
DOCTOR, DO THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS
A TOOL KIT TO PROCEED FROM NOW
ALSO NEED SOME ADVICE?
ON?
A TOOL KIT TO PROCEED FROM NOW
THEY ARE THEIR PRIMARY
ON?
CAREGIVERS BUT THEY'RE ALSO NOT
PROFESSIONALS.
ARE THERE THINGS THAT THEY HAVE
TO KNOW?
>> WELL, THERE ARE, RAY, AND IN
A WORLD OF GOING BACK AND
HELPING TO UNDO TRAUMA IT'S GOOD
FOR A FAMILY MEMBER TO MEET WITH
A TRAUMA EXPERT.
I MEAN, FOR EXAMPLE, ONE OF THE
SADDEST THINGS THAT YOU'LL SEE
IN FAMILIES WITH TRAUMATIZED
PEOPLE IS THEY LOSE THE VOLUME
OF THEIR FEELING-- JOY AND
LOVE-- THEY'RE NUMB.
AND THEY MAY GIVE THE IMPRESSION
THAT THEY DON'T REALLY CARE
ABOUT OTHER PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
THEIR FAMILY OR THEIR FRIENDS.
THEY DO.
BUT THOSE FEELINGS ARE MASKED
AND DIMINISHED.
SO IF EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT THEY
CAN HELP COACH AND ELICIT THESE
FEELINGS.
I'VE BEEN IMPRESSED BY SOLDIERS
WHO FACED ALL KINDS OF
DIFFICULTY ON THE BATTLEFIELD
K.P. LOSE THEIR SENSATION OF THE
LOVE OF GOD.
AND THERAPISTS CAN HELP GET THE
SENSATION RESTORED AND THAT
MEANS A LOT TO PEOPLE TO HAVE
THE FEELING OF THEIR FAITH, THE
FEELING OF THE LOVE FOR THEIR
FAMILIES.
AND THANK GOODNESS NOW WE HAVE A
SCIENCE AND WE HAVE XWIN IN
ADDITIONS WHO CAN HELP.
>> Suarez: DR. FRANK OCHBERG,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME, RAY.
>> Brown: OHIO PUBLIC MEDIA'S
IDEASTREAM IS FOLLOWING THE
STORY.
YOU CAN SEE THEIR REPORTS ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN TO LAST
SEPTEMBER'S ATTACK ON U.S.
INSTALLATIONS IN BENGHAZI,
LIBYA.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
DEMANDED TODAY THAT THE WHITE
HOUSE ORDER THE STATE DEPARTMENT
TO RELEASE EMAILS RELATED TO
WHOM THE AGENCY THOUGHT WAS
BEHIND THE ATTACK.
YESTERDAY, AMID A STEADY FLOW OF
PARTISAN ARGUING BY MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, THREE STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS TESTIFIED THAT SENIOR
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WITHHELD
EMBARRASSING FACTS AND DID NOT
TAKE RESPOIBILNSITY FOR SECURITY
AT THE BENGHAZI FACILITIES.
ONE OF THE WITNESSES, FORMER
U.S. DEPUTY CHIEF OF MISSION IN
LIBYA, GREGORY HICKS, SAID HE
WAS EFFECTIVELY DEMOTED AFTER HE
QUESTIONED AND CRITICIZED THE
STATE DEPARTMENT'S HANDLING OF
THE ATTACK.
TO HELP US SORT OUT SOME OF THE
FACTS IN THE STORY, I'M JOINED
BY ADAM ENTOUS OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
WELCOME BACK TO THE NEWSHOUR.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: FIRST OF ALL, ADAM,
DO WE KNOW WHAT E-MAILS SPEAKER
BOEHNER IS LOOKING FOR?
>> AT THIS POINT WE DON'T KNOW
SPECIFICALLY WHAT E-MAILS HE'S
THINKING.
THOUSANDS OF E-MAILS HAVE
ALREADY BEEN TURNED OVER TO THE
STATE DEPARTMENT.
SOME OF THOSE E-MAILS HAVE BEEN
PROVIDED ONLY TO CERTAIN
COMMITTEES, PARTICULARLY THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES, AND
THOSE MAY BE THE ONES THAT HE'S
REFERRING TO.
AND THOSE E-MAILS FOCUS ON THE
94-WORD TALKING POINTS THAT WERE
GIVEN TO SUSAN RICE TO DELIVER
ON THE TALK SHOWS AFTER THE
ATTACK.
>> Woodruff: SO THAT'S STILL
UNCLEAR AT THIS POINT.
WELL, LET'S TALK ABOUT SOME OF
THE DISPUTES THAT CLEARLY ARE
STILL OUT THERE AFTER
YESTERDAY'S TESTIMONY.
WHAT DO WE KNOW IN TERMS OF WHAT
SECURITY WAS REQUESTED FOR THE
INSTALLATION IN BENGHAZI BEFORE
EVERYTHING HAPPENED ON SEPTEMBER
11?
>> SO THERE WERE A SERIES OF
SECURITY INCIDENTS IN BENGHAZI
IN THE MONTHS LEADING UP TO THE
ATTACK.
INCLUDING AN I.E.D. ATTACK ON
THE CONSULATE ITSELF.
AND THERE WAS A LOT OF CALLS
FROM WITHIN THE MISSION, SO
WITHIN TRIPOLI, FROM THE
SECURITY OFFICERS THERE TO BEEF
UP SECURITY.
THE ISSUE WAS THE LIBYANS HAVE
RESTRICTIONS ON THE NUMBER OF
SECURITY OFFICERS, ARMED
SECURITY OFFICERS, THAT THEY
WILL ALLOW IN.
AND PLUS THE AMERICANS WANTED TO
KEEP A LOW PROFILE AT THE
CONSULATE IN BENGHAZI AND SO
THAT PUT SOME STRAIN ON THE
ABILITY OF THE U.S. TO REALLY
INCREASE THOSE NUMBERS.
>> Woodruff: SO THERE WERE
REQUESTS MADE AND THE RESPONSE
WAS WHAT?
>> THE RESPONSE WAS AS FAR AS WE
CAN TELL THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
LOOK INTO IT BUT NO COMMITMENTS
WERE MADE ABOUT INCREASING
SECURITY.
AND, YOU KNOW, THERE WAS A BRIEF
PLUS-UP IN THE NUMBER OF GUARDS
AT THE CONSULATE FOR A ONE-WEEK
PERIOD AFTER THIS I.E.D. ATTACK
ON THE CONSULATE.
THIS IS MONTHS BEFORE SEPTEMBER
11.
>> Woodruff: BUT THEN THAT WENT
AWAY.
>> THEN IT WENT BACK TO THE LOW
NUMBER.
>> Woodruff: VERY QUICKLY, NOT
TO GET INTO ANCIENT HISTORY, BUT
THERE HAD BEEN REQUESTS FOR
ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR SECURITY
AT THIS INSTALLATION, OTHER
DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATIONS?
THOSE REQUESTS WERE VOTED DOWN
BY CORESSNG, INCLUDING BOTH
PARTIES, INCLUDING REPUBLICANS.
>> CORRECT.
AND YOU ALSO HAD A LARGER
SPECIAL FORCES CONTINGENT THAT
WAS AT THE TRIPOLI EMBASSY WHICH
WAS REDUCED IN THE MONTHS BEFORE
THE ATTACK AND THE PENTAGON
EXPLAINED THAT THAT WAS DONE
BECAUSE THEIR MISSION HAD BEEN
COMPLETED SO IT WENT BACK DOWN
TO A LOWER NUMBER.
>> Woodruff: SO ON THE NIGHT OF
THE ATTACK, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012,
THERE'S A DISPUTE ABOUT WHETHER
OR NOT THERE COULD HAVE BEEN A
MILITARY RESCUE.
WHAT ARE THE FACTS OF THAT?
>> RIGHT.
WELL, MR. HICKS DURING HIS
TESTIMONY YESTERDAY PROVIDED US
WITH A LOT MORE DETAIL THAN WE
HAD PREVIOUSLY HAD ABOUT HIS
ROLE AND ABOUT WHAT THEY WERE
DOING IN THE EMBASSY IN TRIPOLI.
HE DESCRIBES THE CONVERSATION HE
HAD WITH THE DEFENSE ATTACHE IN
WHICH THE DEFENSE ATTACHE
EXPLAINED THAT HE HAD -- WAS ON
THE PHONE WITH AFRICA COMMAND
AND THE JOINT STAFF.
SO THIS WOULD BE THE MILITARY
COMMANDERS THAT ARE RESPONSIBLE
FOR SECURITY IN LIBYA.
AND THEY EXPLAINED TO THE
DEFENSE ATTACHE THAT THERE WERE
FIGHTER PLANES, THE CLOSEST WERE
IN AVIANO, ITALY, IT WOULD BE A
TWO TO THREE-HOUR FLIGHT TO GET
THERE AND THAT THERE WERE NO AIR
TANKER REFUELERS THAT WERE
CAPABLE OF SERVICING THEM.
>> Woodruff: SO EITHER TOO FAR
AWAY AND NOT THE ABILITY TO MAKE
THE TRIP.
>> CORRECT.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT ABOUT --
BUT WE WERE ALSO TOLD THAT THERE
WAS A QUESTION ABOUT SPECIAL
OPERATIONS.
A SMALL CONTINGENT OF SPECIAL
OPERATIONS FORCES WHO WERE IN
TRIPOLI.
>> THE MARINES HAVE WHAT'S
REFERRED TO AS FAST TEAMS WHICH
ARE POSITIONED IN THE REGION
AROUND THE REGION IN EUROPE AND
IN THE MIDDLE EAST THE PENTAGON
SAYS THAT THEY CAN BE DEPLOYED
QUICKLY, BUT IT TAKES HOURS FOR
THEM TO DEPLOY.
AND I THINK WHAT WE'VE LEARNED
IS THAT THE PENTAGON INITIALLY
AFTER REPORTS CAME INTO
WASHINGTON THAT THE CONSULATE
HAD BEEN ATTACKED THE -- THEY
THOUGHT IT WAS OVER.
THEY THOUGHT IT WAS AN ATTACK
THAT OCCURRED AND THEN THERE WAS
NO REASON TO SUSPECT THAT THERE
WOULD BE A SECOND WAVE WHICH 40
CURED HOURS LATER AT THE ANNEX
WHICH IS THE C.I.A. FACILITY.
>> Woodruff: SO FINALLY, ADAM,
WHAT ABOUT THIS -- THE
ALLEGATION THAT MR. HICKS MADE
THAT WHAT REALLY EMERGED FROM
THAT HEARING YESTERDAY, WHICH IS
THAT THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION,
SECRETARY CLINTON HAVE NOT BEEN
AS FORTHCOMING AS THEY SHOULD
HAVE BEEN?
THAT INFORMATION --
INVESTIGATORS DID NOT HAVE
ACCESS TO THE PEOPLE AND THE
INFORMATION THEY NEEDED TO GET
TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS.
>> WELL, I MEAN, THAT IS AN
ACCUSATION WE'VE ALSO HEARD FROM
MANY REPUBLICANS AND SOME
DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS WHO WERE
CONCERNED THAT INFORMATION WAS
NOT BEING SHARED QUICKLY ENOUGH.
IN THE IMMEDIATE RUNG UP TO THE
U.S. ELECTIONS LAST YEAR IT WAS
A VERY SENSITIVE ISSUE.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT PROVIDED A
LOT OF DOCUMENTATION TO
CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATORS.
THERE WAS DISSATISFACTION ON
BOTH SIDES AND IN PARTICULAR
THERE WAS A LOT OF CONCERN ABOUT
THE THING THAT NOBODY COULD TALK
ABOUT WHICH WAS THE C.I.A.'S
ROLE IN BENGHAZI.
OF THE 30 AMERICANS WHO WERE
EVACUATED AFTER THE ATTACK,
APPROXIMATELY 27 OF THEM WORKED
FOR THE STATE DEPARTMENT.
THE REST OF THEM WERE WORKING
FOR THE C.I.A.
AND THAT'S SOMETHING NOBODY WAS
ABLE TO TALK ABOUT IN OPEN
SESSION AND THAT REALLY DID MAKE
IT MUCH HARDER FOR EVERYBODY TO
EXPLAIN WHAT ACTUALLY TRANSPIRED
>> Woodruff: SO AFTER
YESTERDAY'S HEARING, WHERE DOES
THIS COME GO FROM HERE?
CLEARLY THERE ARE STILL TWO OR
MORE VERSIONS OF MANY ASPECTS OF
THIS.
>> RIGHT.
I MEAN, I THINK IT'S PRETTY
CLEAR THAT THE REPUBLICANS
INTEND ON MAINTAINING THIS AND
CONTINUING THIS AS AN ISSUE AND
THERE WILL BE MORE HEARINGS FOR
SURE AND I THINK THAT
YESTERDAY'S DRAMATIC TESTIMONY--
WHICH HUMANIZED IN A WAY THAT WE
HADN'T SEEN BEFORE WHAT OCCURRED
ON SEPTEMBER 11-- IS GOING TO
ADD SOME ADDITIONAL STEAM TO
THIS.
BUT I'M NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR WHAT
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS GOING
TO BE GLEANED.
MAYBE THESE ADDITIONAL E-MAILS
WHEN THEY'LL PASSED OUT WILL
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AND WE TO WAIT AND SEE.
>> Woodruff: ADAM ENTOUS AT THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL," THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: NEXT, ABANDONING A
WIDESPREAD AND PAINFUL RITE OF
PASSAGE.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT FRED DE
SAM LAZARO VISITED E WETHST
AFRICAN NATION OF SENEGAL.
HIS REPORT IS PART OF OUR
"AGENTS FOR CHANGE" SERIES.
AND A NOTE: SOME VIEWERS MAY
FIND THE SJECTUB MATTER
TROUBLING.
>> Reporter: AS DUSK APPROACHES,
A GROUP CALLED TOSTAN SETS UP A
GIANT SCREEN IN THIS REMOTE
VILLAGE IN SENEGAL.
TO OVERCOME LANGUAGE BARRIERS,
THE FEATURE WILL BE A 1929
BUSTER KEATON SILENT FILM.
THE FILM IS A HIT.
SO WERE EVENTS PUT ON EARLIER IN
THE DAY BY TOSTAN.
IT'S MISSION IS TO TEACH ABOUT
HUM RIGANHTS, SPECIFICALLY THE
RIGHT TO HEALTH, BUT ITS
SEMINARS AND SKITS OFTEN LEAD TO
A DISCUSSION OF AN AGE OLD
CUSTOM: FEMALE GENITAL CUTTING.
>> (translated): SHE NEEDS TO
BE CUT.
ALL GIRLS NEED THAT.
YOU CAN'T HAVE A RECOGNIZED
MARRIAGE IF SHE'S NOT CUT.
>> Reporter: THIS PAINFUL RITE
OF PASSAGE IS PRACTICED BY BOTH
MUSLIMS AND CHRISTIANS ACROSS A
SWATH OF MOSTLY AFRICAN NATIONS,
FROM SENEGAL TO EGYPT.
EACH YEAR, THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATI SAYONS UP TO THREE
MILLION GIRLS IN AFRICA ARE
SUBJECTED TO GENITAL MUTILATION,
AND UP TO 140 MILLION WOMEN LIVE
WITH ITS CONSEQUENCES.
GENITAL CUTTING PROBABLY
ORIGINATED IN THE HAREMS OF
ANCIENT RULERS AS A MEANS OF
CONTROLLING WOMEN'S FIDELITY, OR
A SIGN OF CHAITY STAMONG THOSE
WHO ASPIRED TO BE CONSORTS,
ACCORDING TO MOLLY MELCHING, WHO
STARTED TOSTAN.
>> AS THE YEARS WENT ON-- I MEAN
2,220 YEARS-- IT BECAME VERY
MUCH A PART OF WHAT WAS
CONSIDERED CRITERIA FOR GOOD
MARRIAGE.
>> Reporter: MELCHING IS AN
ILLINOIS NATIVE WHO HAS LIVED
HERE FOR FOUR DECADES, FIRST AS
A STUDENT, THEN PEACE CORPS
WORKER.
GENITAL CUTTING WAS RARELY
DISCUSSED PUBLICLY AND IN FACT
WHEN SHE BEGAN 20 YEARS AGO,
MELCHING'S GOAL WASN'T TO END IT
BUT INSTEAD SIMPLY PROVIDE
INFORMATION ON MANY HEALTH
PROBLEMS THAT WERE SERIOUSLY
MISUNDERSTOOD.
>> WHEN YOU SEE A FRIEND THAT
YOU'VE KNOWN FOR SEVERAL MONTHS
AND YOU'VE GONE TO HER HOUSE FOR
LUNCH, AND THEN SHE TELLS YOU
HER CHILD HAS SOME PROBLEM, THAT
IT'S SOMEONE WHOSE CAST AN EVIL
SPELL ON THE CHILD, THE BABY,
AND THAT SHE'S GOING TO TAKE
THEM TO A RELIGIOUS LEADER TO
GET THE SPELL TAKEN OFF, AND YOU
DON'T KNOW WHAT TO SAY.
IT TURNS OUT THE BABY WAS
DEHYDRATED.
>> Reporter: BUT THE MORE
TOSTAN'S STAFF AND VOLUNTEERS
TALKED WITH THEIR LOCAL
COMMUNITIES ABOUT HEALTH, THE
MORE THE TOPIC MELCHING CALLS
F.G.C. CAME UP, SINCE PEOPLE
BEGAN TO TIE IT TO BAD HEALTH.
>> SO SUDDENLY AS THEY STARTED
LEARNING ABOUT GERM TRANSMISSION
AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF F.G.C.
AND HOW THESE INFECTIONS OCCUR
AND WHY THEY HAD MORE PROBLEMS
IN CHILDBIRTH THAN OTHER WOMEN
WHO HAD NOT BEEN CUT, THEY
STARTED SAYING WAIT A MINUTE.
>> Reporter: TO GO FROM TALKING
ABOUT AN AGE-OLD CULTURAL NORM
TO ACTUALLY CHANGING IT
PRESENTED A BIG CHALLENGE.
TOSTAN'S APPROACH HAS BEEN TO GO
TO LOCAL IMAMS TO GET THEIR
AGREEMENT THAT THE RITUAL IS NOT
A RELIGIOUS OBLIGATION.
>> WE SHARE OUR MODULES WITH THE
RELIGIOUS LEADERS SO THEY SEE
THAT EVERYTHING WE DO IS FOR THE
WELL-BEING OF THE COMMUNITY, THE
HEALTH, AND ALL THESE THINGS ARE
THINGS THAT ISLAM ESPOUSES, AND
SO THEY'RE VERY HAPPY IN
GENERAL, BUT FIRST OF ALL
THEY'RE HAPPY BECAUSE WE START
WITH THEM.
>> Reporter: THAT RESPECT ALSO
CARRIES OVER IN THE GROUPS
MESSAGES IN GENERAL.
>> TOSTAN FOUND THAT USING
APPROACHES THAT SHAME OR BLAME
PEOPLE REALLY WAS JUST THE
OPPOSITE OF WHAT WOULD WORK IN
CHANGING SOCIAL NORMS, WHEN YOU
SAY TO SOMEONE WE KNOW YOU LOVE
YOUR DAUGHTER AND YOU'RE DOING
THINGS BECAUSE YOU LOVE YOUR
DAUGHTER, BUT LET'S LOOK AT THIS
AND LET'S TRY TO UNDERSTAND
TOGETHER EXACTLY WHAT ARE THE
CONSEQUENCES OF THIS PRACTICE,
BUT YOU ARE THE ONES WHO WILL
HAVE TO MAKE THE DECISION, THEN
SUDDENLY PEOPLE ARE WILLING TO
LISTEN.
THEY DON'T GET DEFENSIVE.
>> Reporter: IT'S BEEN FAR MORE
EFFECTIVE THAN THE APPROACH OF
MANY AID GROUPS, SAYS UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO
PROFESSOR GERRY MACKIE.
>> WHEN WE THINK OF AN IDEAL WAY
OF MAKING A CHANGE, WE SAY IT'S
DEMOCRATIC, WE ALL GET TOGETHER
AND TALK IT OVER D DEANCIDE WHAT
IS THE BEST THING TO DO.
WHEREAS SOME DEVELOPMENT
APPROACHES WOULD SAY FORCE THEM
TO DO IT, PAY THEM TO DO IT,
TRICK THEM INTO DOING IT.
>> Reporter: IN TOSTAN'S
APPROACH LOCAL LEADERS AND
ELDERS PRODUCE THE SKITS AND
LEAD DISCUSSIONS.
THEIR WORDS AND PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE CARRY STRONG
CREDIBILITY.
DIARRE BA USED TO MAKE A LIVING
AS A CUTTER.
>> (tnslarated): I WAS PART OF
THIS PROCESS.
I FELT BAD, THIS IS NOT RIGHT.
I FELT BAD BUT I DIDN'T KNOW
ANYTHING AT THE TIME.
I HAD NO LEARNING.
>> (translated): IT'S PAINFUL.
I CAN NEVER FORGET THE PAIN, SO
PAINFUL.
>> Reporter: MARIEME BAMBA IS A
LONG TIME CAMPAIGNER FOR TOSTAN
AND SHE SPARED HER TEN-YEAR-OLD
DAUGHTER THE TRAUMA.
YET, EARLY IN HER OWN MARRIAGE
SHE WAS DETERMINED TO KEEP UP
THE TRADITION, EVEN THOUGH HER
OWN HUSBAND WAS OPPOSED TO IT.
>> (translated): SHE INSISTED
THAT SHE HAD TO DO IT.
THERE WERE SO MANY PROBLEMS IF
YOU DIDN'T DO IT.
IF YOU COOKED MEALS, NO ONE
WOULD EAT YOUR FOOD.
IT'S BECAUSE WE DIDN'T KNOW.
PEOPLE TOLD US THAT IT WAS OUR
RELIGION.
IF YOU DON'T DO IT YOU'LL BE
GOING AGAINST YOUR RELIGION.
ALL THIS IS FALSE.
BUT I ALONE CAN'T DO THIS IN THE
VILLAGE.
>> Reporter: DOING THIS ALONE
COULD RENDER ONES DAUGHTERS
UNMARRIAGEABLE.
SO ONE OF TOSTAN'S MOST CRITICAL
ROLES TODAY IS TO LESSEN THE
STIGMA BY GETTING WHOLE
COMMUNITIES AND OTHERS INTO
WHICH THEY MIGHT MARRY TO
JOINTLY DECLARE AN END TO
CUTTING.
PUBLIC RALLIES CALLED
DECLARATIONS HAVE INCREASED TO
INCLUDE HUNDREDS OF VILLAGES WHO
GATHER TO CELEBRATE THE
DECISION.
>> ONE PART OF BRINGING ABOUT A
CHANGE LIKE THIS IS TO GET
EVERYONE TO CHANGE AT ONCE, WHAT
WE CALLED COORDINATED
ABANDONMENT.
EVERYONE HAS TO SEE THAT
EVERYONE ELSE SEES THAT EVERYONE
IS CHANGING.
>> NEVER IN MY WILDEST DREAMS
COULD I HAVE IMAGINED THAT I
WOULD BE SITTING HERE YEARS
LATER, SAYING THAT 4,792
COMMUNITIES IN SENEGAL HAD
ABANDONED.
IN THE BEGINNING IT WAS JUST UN-
THOUGHT OF, UNBELIEVABLE,
BECAUSE IT WAS SO TABOO.
>> Reporter: SINCE OUR VISIT THE
NUMBER OF COMMUNITIES HAS GROWN
TO MORE THAN 5,000 AND MANY HAVE
ALSO PLEDGED TO CHANGE ANOTHER
TRADITION: THE FREQUENT PRACTICE
OF ALLOWING OLDER MEN TO MARRY
ADOLESCENT GIRLS, ACKNOWLEDGING
BOTH THE HEALTH RISKS AND THE
GIRLS' HUMAN RIGHTS.
MOLLY MELCHING SAYS THERE ARE
EXAMPLES IN HISTORY OF THIS KIND
OF SWEEPING SHIFT IN SOCIAL
NORMS AND ATTITUDES.
SHE SEES A VERY CURRENT ONE
EVERY TIME SHE COMES HOME IN
AMERICAN VIEWS ON SMOKING.
>> PEOPLE WERE SMOKING AND
NOBODY SAID ANYTHING ABOUT IT
MUCH THROUGH THE '50S, THE '60S,
AND EVEN THE '70S AND AS PEOPLE
BECAME AWARE OF THE HARM THAT IT
CAUSES, MORE AND MORE PEOPLE--
THERE WAS A CRITICAL MASS OF
PEOPLE WHO STARTED PROTESTING.
IT WAS AMAZING FOR ME, COMING
FROM SENEGAL TO THE UNITED
STATES TO SEE HOW QUICKLY THINGS
TURNED AROUND.
>> Reporter: TOSTAN'S EFFORTS
HAVE NOW EXPANDED BEYOND SENEGAL
TO SEVEN OTHER AFRICAN NATIONS.
>> Woodruff: A VERSION OF FRED'S
STORY AIRED ON THE PBS PROGRAM,
RELIGION AND ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY.
HIS REPORTING IS A PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE UNDERTOLD STORIES
PROJECT AT SAINT MARY'S
UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
HE TALKS MORE WITH MOLLY
MELCHING ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
FIND THEIR CONVERSATION ABOUT
HOW SHE GOT HER START IN
ACTIVISM AGAINST GENITAL
MUTILATION.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
NEWS FLASH: MARCIA COYLE WAS NOT
IN THE COURTROOM TODAY ONLY
BECAUSE THERE WERE NO SUPREME
COURT ARGUMENTS OR DECISIONS.
BUT SHE IS WITH US, BECAUSE IN
HER SPARE TIME FROM COVERING THE
COURT ON A DAILY BASIS FOR THE
NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL AND, OF
COURSE, REGULARLY WITH US.
SHE'S WRITTEN A BOOK THAT TAKES
A LARGER LOOK AT THE JUSTICES
AND KEY CASES SINCE 2005, THE
YEAR THAT JOHN ROBERTS BECAME
CHIEF JUSTICE.
IT'S CALLED, "THE ROBERTS COURT:
THE STRUGGLE FOR THE
CONSTITUTION."
MARCIA, WELCOME.
AND MARCIA, WELCOME.
>> THANKS, JEFF.
>> Brown: FIRST, WHAT WERE YOU
TRYING TO DO HERE THAT YOU DON'T
DO NORMALLY WITH US AND FOR THE
-- IN YOUR DAILY JOB?
>> I SAW THE BOOK AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO REALLY EXPLORE
THE COURT IN-DEPTH.
I THINK I AND MANY JOURNALISTS
TODAY FEEL THAT WE HAVE FEWER
OPPORTUNITIES TO WRITE IN-DEPTH
ABOUT JUST ABOUT ANY SUBJECT
BECAUSE OF THE INTERNET.
WE'RE WRITING FOR OUR NEWSPAPERS
WE'RE WRITING FOR THE WEB, WE'RE
WRITING FOR BLOGS AND A BOOK WAS
AN OPPORTUNITY TO REALLY DO THAT
AND ALSO TO JUST ADD TO WHAT I
DO ON THE NEWSHOUR AND THAT'S
TRY TO SHED SOME LIGHT, MORE
LIGHT, ON WHAT THE COURT DOES.
>> Brown: WELL, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE BIG PICTURE, THE BIG ISSUE
OF THE LAST YEAR, ONE WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT AND ONE YOU FOCUS
ON HERE IS THE CONSERVATIVE
SHIFT IN THE MAKEUP OF THE COURT
AND HOW THAT AFFECTS MANY OF THE
DECISIONS HERE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE COURT HAD A CONSERVATIVE
MAJORITY FOR SOME TIME.
BUT WITH THE ROBERTS COURT IN
PARTICULAR WE SAW THE COURT
BECOME A LITTLE MORE
CONSERVATIVE THAN ITS
PREDECESSOR COURT MAINLY BECAUSE
OF THE ADDITION OF JUSTICE
SAMUEL ALITO WHO REPLACED
JUSTICE SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR.
SHE OFTEN WAS MORE OF A
MODERATING FORCE ON THE COURT
AND HE IS MUCH MORE CONSERVATIVE
>> Brown: AND ONE OF THE THINGS
YOU'RE LOOKING AT-- AND, AGAIN,
THIS COMES UP IN THE SORT OF
POLITIZATION OF THE COURT.
WE TALK ABOUT IT AS A MORE --
AND IT'S BECAUSE OF THE TIMES WE
LIVE IN, RIGHT?
EVERYTHING IS POLITICIZED.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
>> Brown: HOW DID THE JUSTICES
SEE THAT AND HOW DID THAT PLAY
INTO THEIR WORK, IF AT ALL?
>> I DID INTERVIEW A GOOD NUMBER
OF THE JUSTICES AND IN THE BOOK
SOME OF THEM DO TALK ABOUT
WHETHER POLITICS ENTERS INTO
THEIR DECISION MAKING AND
OBVIOUSLY THEY ALL FEEL THAT IT
DOES NOT.
BUT THEY TALK ABOUT HOW THEY
APPROACH CASES.
ONE, THEY DON'T THINK IN TERMS
OF A LIBERAL BLOCK AND A
CONSERVATIVE BLOCK.
AS ONE JUSTICE EXPLAINED TO ME,
"WE ALL DO THE SAME THING.
QUESTION WE READ THE LOWER COURT
OPINION, WE READ THE BRIEF, WE
LISTEN TO THE ARGUMENTS, WE LOOK
AT PRIOR DECISIONS AND WE MAKE
OUR DECISIONS."
BUT ONE JUSTICE ALSO SAID "THE
RESULTS ARE WHAT THE RESULTS ARE
WE SHOULDN'T BE SO NAIVE, I
THINK, TO BELIEVE THAT WHEN YOU
HAVE FIVE JUSTICE ACE POINTED BY
A REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT AND FOUR
BY DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTS THAT
THERE IS GOING TO BE IDEOLOGICAL
EACH THINK WITH THE POLITICS OF
THE PRESIDENT.
>> Brown: AND THE WAY YOU'VE
DONE THIS IS TO LOOK AT FOUR BIG
AREAS, CASES THAT WERE DECIDED I
BY 5-4.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, JEFF.
IT'S A STORY OF THE ROBERTS
COURT IN GENERAL BUT MORE
SPECIFICALLY IT'S THE STORY OF
FOUR GREAT DIVIDES ON THE COURT
IN THE AREAS OF RACE, GUNS,
MONEY IN CAMPAIGNS AND ELECTIONS
AND HEALTH CARE.
>> Brown: ALL VERY MUCH WITH US.
>> THESE DECISIONS HAVE SHELF
LIFE, WE'RE GOING TO SEE MORE
LITIGATION AND WE'VE SEEN IT
RIGHT NOW IN THE CURRENT COURT.
BUT ALSO THE STRUGGLE WITHIN THE
COURT AND OUTSIDE OF THE COURT
FOR THE MEANING OF THE
CONSTITUTION IN THOSE AREAS.
>> Brown: AND YOU GET TO TELL
THE BACK STORE I, WHICH IS WHAT
MAKES IT SO SORT OF INTRIGUING
AND TAKES US BEYOND THE DAILY
NEWS, RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> Brown: INCLUDING HOW A LOT OF
CASES JUST GET TO THE COURT.
WHAT'S GOING ON BEHIND THE
SCENES.
>> THAT WAS REALLY IMPORTANT TO
ME BECAUSE WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
CASES, WE BRIEFLY GO THROUGH THE
FACTS AND THEN WE DEAL WITH THE
LAW.
BUT IT'S HARD TO GET TO THE
SUPREME COURT.
AND IN THE BOOK YOU'RE GOING TO
MEET PEOPLE LIKE A SEATTLE
MOTHER WHO SUED THE SEATTLE
SCHOOL DISTRICT IN THE RACE
CASES.
AND YOU'RE GOING TO MEET A
POLITICAL ACTIVIST WHO WAS
INVOLVED IN THE CITIZENS UNITED
CASE.
AND AT THE SAME TIME YOU'RE
GOING TO MEET SOME VERY SMART,
CREATIVE, CONSERVATIVE AND
LIBERTARIAN LAWYERS WHO HAVE AN
EYE ON THE COURT, A MORE CERTAIN
THET I CAN COURT, AND PUSH THESE
CASES UP TO THE SUPREME COURT.
YOUNG LAWYERS WHO -- LIKE THE
ONE WHO WON THE SECOND AMENDMENT
GUN CASE.
>> Brown: IT'S THE ROBERTS COURT
AND YOU START WITH CHIEF JUSTICE
ROBERTS.
HOW IS HE INVOLVED?
WHAT -- WHAT ROLE DO YOU THINK
HE PLAYS IN SORT OF CONTROLLING
THE SHAPE OF -- AND THE OUTCOME
OF THE COURT?
>> I THINK HE'S VERY COMMITTED
TO TRYING TO REACH CONSENSUS ON
THE COURT BECAUSE WHEN THE COURT
CAN SPEAK WITH ONE VOICE OR
NEARLY ONE VOICE IT SENDS A
CLEAR MESSAGE TO THE LOWER
COURTS THAT THEY SHOULD APPLY
AND INTERPRET THE LAW.
AND HE'S HAD SOME SUCCESS WITH
THAT.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS I POINT
OUT IN THE BOOK IS THAT EVEN
THOUGH I'M FOCUSING ON 5-4
DECISIONS, MORE THAN 50% OF THE
COURT'S DECISIONS ARE UNANIMOUS
OR BY 7-2 OR 8-1.
>> Brown: THAT DOESN'T GET THAT
MUCH ATTENTION, RIGHT?
WE ALL TEND TO LOOK AT THOSE --
>> RIGHT, NOT AT ALL.
AND PRESIDENT 5-4 DECISIONS THAT
I DO FOCUS ON, I PICK THEM
MAINLY BECAUSE WHEN WE LEARN
WHEN THEY DIVIDE LIKE THAT THE
MOST ABOUT INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
AS TO HOW THEY APPROACH AND
INTERPRET THE LAW.
>> Brown: AND PERSONALLY --
WELL, WE TALKED ABOUT THIS AFTER
THE HEALTH CARE DECISION, FOR
ONE, WHICH YOU WRITE ABOUT HERE.
DID THAT LEAVE ANY STRAINS AMONG
THE JUSTICES OR CAN YOU TELL
FROM THEIR WORKING LIFE HOW MUCH
THEY DO GET ALONG?
>> OKAY.
WELL, I DID TALK TO TWO JUSTICES
AFTER THE HEALTH CARE RULING AND
THEY WERE VERY HONEST THAT IT
WAS A VERY TENSE, TOUGH TIME.
IN FACT THEY COMPARED IT TO THE
SEATTLE/LOUISVILLE SCHOOL CASES
THAT I DISCUSSED THAT WERE FOR
2007.
IT WAS THAT DIFFICULT.
BUT THEY ALSO WERE VERY
CONFIDENT THAT THE EMOTIONS AND
THE PASSIONS WOULD BE EASED BY
THE FOLLOWING SEPTEMBER AND I
HAVE SEEN NO EVIDENCE OF
CONTINUED STRAIN AMONG THE
JUSTICES.
THIS IS A GROUP OF JUSTICES THAT
ACTUALLY -- THEY DO LIKE EACH
OTHER.
AND THEY WORK WELL.
IT'S A VERY -- IT'S A VERY
COLLEGIAL COURT.
IT'S NOT NINE SCORPIONS IN THE
BOTTLE THAT WE KNOW HISTORICALLY
>> Brown: JOHN ROBERTS CAME AS A
YOUNG MAN.
HE COULD BE THERE FOR A LONG
TIME.
A NUMBER OF YOUNG JUSTICES NOW.
THIS IS VERY MUCH A WORK IN
PROGRESS, RIGHT?
I MEAN, IN THE LONG TERM BUT
EVEN IN THE SHORT TERM AS OF
NEXT WEEK WE'LL HAVE SOME NEW
DECISIONS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND THAT'S ANOTHER POINT IN THE
BOOK THAT BY HISTORICAL
STANDARDS THIS IS A YOUNG COURT
AND ALSO BY THE AGE OF AT LEAST
FOUR OF THE JUSTICES AND THE
CHANGE -- THE TURNOVER THAT'S
BEEN ON THE COURT IN JUST FIVE
YEARS THEY HAD FOUR NEW
JUSTICES.
FUL THAT THE JUSTICES ALSO TALK
ABOUT IN BOOK HOW THAT AFFECTS
THEIR OWN JURISPRUDENCE AND ALSO
THEIR INTERPERSONAL
RELATIONSHIP.
>> Brown: "MARCIA COIL, AS
ALWAYS, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
>> Brown: WE'LL CONTINUE THIS
CONVERSATION ONLINE.
PLEASE JOIN US THERE LATER AND
YOU CAN READ EXCERPTS FROM
MARCIA'S BOOK AND COVERAGE OF
THIS SESSION'S MAJOR CASES.
ALL THAT ON OUR SUPREME COURT
PAGE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
A MASSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
PLAN SURVIVED MOSTLY INTACT AS A
SENATE COMMITTEE BEGAN
CONSIDERING HUNDREDS OF
AMENDMENTS, BUT IT FACES
DETERMINED OPPOSITION IN THE
WEEKS TO COME.
AND A CLEVELAND MAN WAS
ARRAIGNED IN THE KIDNAP AND RAPE
OF THREE WOMEN WHO WERE HELD
CAPTIVE FOR YEARS.
A PROSECUTOR SAID HE MIGHT SEEK
THE DEATH PENALTY IN THE CASE.
>> Brown: ONLINE TODAY: MEET
SOME OF THE COMPASSIONATE
CAREGIVERS ON THE FRONT LINES OF
AMERICAN HEALTH CARE.
HARI SRENIVASAN MAKES THE
INTRODUCTION.
>> Sreenivasan: PHOTOGRAPHER AND
FILMMAKER CAROLYN JONES
SPENT TWO YEARS EXAMINING
CHANGES IN THE HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM.
I INTERVIEWED HER ABOUT HER NEW
BOOK "THE AMERICAN NURSE
PROJECT."
FIND THAT, PLUS EIGHT NURSING
JOBS YOU NEVER KNEW EXISTED.
PLUS, PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES OF
THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE HAVE PUT
THEIR VIEWS INTO SONG. LISTEN TO
THEIR MUSIC AND FIND INTERVIEWS
WITH A SONGWRITER AND A PRODUCER
ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JEFFREY
BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
WITH MARK SHIELDS AND MICHAEL
GERSON, AMONG OTHERS.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.